








        Monday Plenary
    














        NAPAC2025 - Proceedings Sacramento, CA, USA


Home
        — Session
        — Classification
        — Authors 
Institutes
        — DOI of Institutes
        — Keywords









MOXP


                -
            

                Monday Plenary
            

                11 Aug 2025, 09:00 -
                10:30
            


MOXP01Electron-Ion ColliderThe Electron-Ion Collider (EIC), which is being designed by BNL, JLab and other partners, will be a particle accelerator that collides electrons with protons and nuclei to produce snapshots of those particles’ internal structure. It will collide polarized high-energy electron beams with hadron beams in the center-of-mass energy range of 20-140 GeV. The electron beam, employed as a probe, will reveal the arrangement of the quarks and gluons that make up the protons and neutrons of nuclei. The EIC will allow us to study the "strong nuclear force", the role of gluons in the matter within and all around us, and the nature of particle spin. This talk will describe the Electron-Ion Collider design and construction at Brookhaven National Lab.S. Nagaitsev  Brookhaven National LaboratoryCite: reference for this paper using: BibTeX, LaTeX, Text/Word, RIS, EndNote


MOXP02APS upgrade: Commissioning the world’s first light source based on swap-out injection1The Advanced Photon Source (APS) has recently completed a major upgrade, replacing its 25-year-old storage ring with a cutting-edge hybrid seven-bend achromat lattice enhanced by six additional reverse bends. The new design achieves a natural emittance of 42 pm-rad, enabling the production of X-rays up to 500 times brighter than those generated by the original APS. A key innovation of the upgrade is the implementation of a swap-out injection scheme, which replaces entire depleted bunches instead of performing traditional top-up injection. This approach enables on-axis injection to accommodate for the reduced dynamic aperture resulting from strong focusing. This paper outlines the commissioning process, shares initial operating experience with swap-out injection, and presents performance data for new systems such as the bunch-lengthening cavity.V. Sajaev, A. Brill, B. Yang, F. Rafael, G. Shen, H. Bui, H. Shang, J. Dooling, J. Carwardine, J. Calvey, K. Harkay, L. Emery, M. Borland, M. Kelly, N. Arnold, O. Mohsen, R. Soliday, R. Lindberg, T. Fors, T. Berenc, U. Wienands, W. Cheng, Y. Sun  Argonne National LaboratoryM. Smith  Advanced Photon SourceN. Kuklev  Fermi National Accelerator LaboratoryPaper: MOXP02DOI: reference for this paper: 10.18429/JACoW-NAPAC2025-MOXP02About:  Received: 04 Aug 2025 — Revised: 13 Aug 2025 — Accepted: 14 Aug 2025 — Issue date: 08 Oct 2025 Cite: reference for this paper using: BibTeX, LaTeX, Text/Word, RIS, EndNote


MOXP03High Power Attosecond X-ray Pulses at LCLS-IIThe LCLS-II upgrade has expanded the capabilities of the Linac Coherent Light Source (LCLS), extending the deliverable photon energy range and increasing the repetition rate from 120 Hz to a maximum of 1 MHz. Here we report the development of attosecond X-ray science capabilities at the LCLS-II, including the commissioning of beam shaping methods for attosecond pulse generation, and the demonstration, characterization, and delivery of advanced attosecond XFEL modes at high repetition rates. We used the photocathode modulation method$*$ at LCLS-II to generate single-spike pulses with up to 10s uJ pulse energy. These attosecond pulses are characterized at the TMO instrument with the angular streaking technique$**$. Furthermore, we demonstrated advanced modes such as spectrotemporally shaped attosecond pulses$***$ and pump/probe attosecond pulse pairs. These capabilities have been delivered at a repetition rate of up to 33 kHz, enabling the next generation of ultrafast experiments at XFELs.P. Franz  Stanford UniversityCite: reference for this paper using: BibTeX, LaTeX, Text/Word, RIS, EndNote





