








        Thursday Poster Session
    














        NAPAC2025 - Proceedings Sacramento, CA, USA


Home
        — Session
        — Classification
        — Authors 
Institutes
        — DOI of Institutes
        — Keywords









THP


                -
            

                Thursday Poster Session
            

                14 Aug 2025, 16:00 -
                18:00
            


THP0013D Theory of the Ion Channel LaserThe ion channel laser (ICL) is similar to the free electron laser (FEL) but utilizes the electric field from a blowout regime plasma wake rather than the magnetic field from an undulator to oscillate particles. Compared to the FEL, the ICL can lase with much larger energy spread beams and in much shorter distances, making it an attractive candidate for a future compact plasma accelerator driven coherent light source. We present a novel full 3D theory of the ICL accounting for numerous effects including transverse guided mode shape, diffraction, frequency and Betatron phase detuning, and nonzero spread in energy and undulator parameter. This theory is used to predict the gain, radiation mode profile, gain bandwidth, and emittance and energy spread constraints of the ion channel laser.C. Hansel, M. Litos  University of Colorado BoulderA. Marinelli, Z. Huang  SLAC National Accelerator LaboratoryCite: reference for this paper using: BibTeX, LaTeX, Text/Word, RIS, EndNote


THP003A compact 2D carbon beam scanner with interleaved saddle coils936Scanning magnets are used in proton and ion beam therapy to produce a radiation dose conforming to the cancerous tumor. In most existing beam delivery systems, two separate magnets are used to scan the beam in the transverse planes. To enable more compact systems and gantries, a combined function 2D scanner magnet with a short working distance is highly desirable. Earlier designs suffer from field non-uniformity in at least one plane. A compact 2D scanner magnet has been designed to produce high-field uniformity in both planes. The scanner was designed for carbon ions and could be easily scaled down for protons and other light ions. The design is based on saddle coils where the coils of the two magnets are interleaved to balance both field properties and power losses when scanning in both planes. The simulated field performance shows ~ 0.1% field uniformity in both planes within the useful aperture of the magnet . This represents a significant improvement over the prior art of the elephant-ear scanner design. Different design options and possible implementations will be presented.B. Mustapha, A. Ravichandran, J. Nolen  Argonne National LaboratoryPaper: THP003DOI: reference for this paper: 10.18429/JACoW-NAPAC2025-THP003About:  Received: 14 Aug 2025 — Revised: 15 Aug 2025 — Accepted: 15 Aug 2025 — Issue date: 08 Oct 2025 Cite: reference for this paper using: BibTeX, LaTeX, Text/Word, RIS, EndNote


THP004Advanced growth and characterization of alkali antimonide photocathodes for bright beam applications939The properties of the photoemitting electron sources are the most determining factors contributing to the performance of the most advanced electron accelerator applications such as particle colliders, X-ray free electron lasers, ultra-fast electron diffraction and microscopy experiments. Therefore, low mean transverse energy (MTE), high quantum efficiency (QE) along with long operational lifetime and robustness under high electric fields and laser fluences must be demonstrated by the photocathode for these bright beam applications. Recent investigations have revealed that the epitaxial growth of single crystal cesium antimonides can be achieved by photocathode growth on lattice matched substrates. In this letter, the experimental setup for highly promising alkali antimonide photocathode growth by molecular beam epitaxy on lattice matched substrates and in-situ characterization with reflection high-energy electron diffraction (RHEED) has been presented. To adapt the L-band RF gun of Argonne Cathode Test-stand (ACT) for extensive testing of alkali antimonides in real accelerator conditions, compatible cathode plug design and smooth transportation process have been developed and also described in this paper.T. Hasan, O. Chubenko  Northern Illinois UniversityE. Wisniewski, G. Chen, J. Power, S. Doran  Argonne National LaboratoryPaper: THP004DOI: reference for this paper: 10.18429/JACoW-NAPAC2025-THP004About:  Received: 09 Aug 2025 — Revised: 15 Aug 2025 — Accepted: 15 Aug 2025 — Issue date: 08 Oct 2025 Cite: reference for this paper using: BibTeX, LaTeX, Text/Word, RIS, EndNote


THP005Advancing conduction-cooled 650 MHz SRF technology for industrial accelerators at Fermilab's IARC942The National Nuclear Security Administration (NNSA) funds the Illinois Accelerator Research Center (IARC) at Fermilab in developing a high-power, conduction-cooled Superconducting Radio Frequency (SRF) accelerator tailored for industrial applications requiring robust and efficient operation. A 650 MHz, 1.6 MeV, 20 kW SRF accelerator is currently under development, employing a conduction cooling approach to simplify cryogenic requirements and enhance accessibility for industrial use. The accelerator's control system is implemented on the Blinky-Lite platform, selected for its open-source architecture, secure remote access capabilities, and operational flexibility—attributes advantageous for industrial deployment and sustained operation. A dedicated beamline is designed to measure essential beam parameters and test the integrated performance of the accelerator and control systems, thereby validating their operational readiness for intended applications.I. Gonin, J. Thangaraj, N. Solyak, S. Kazakov, Y. Ji, V. Yakovlev, M. Henry, C. Edwards, J. Helsper, A. Sukhanov, T. Khabiboulline  Fermi National Accelerator LaboratoryD. MeGinnis  BLMonitor & Control ABPaper: THP005DOI: reference for this paper: 10.18429/JACoW-NAPAC2025-THP005About:  Received: 07 Aug 2025 — Revised: 12 Aug 2025 — Accepted: 12 Aug 2025 — Issue date: 08 Oct 2025 Cite: reference for this paper using: BibTeX, LaTeX, Text/Word, RIS, EndNote


THP006Advancing to 500 mA: High-Current Ramp-Up and Operational Experience at NSLS-II946Since the first light in 2014 at 50 mA, NSLS-II has steadily increased beam current, reaching 500 mA in October 2019. Along the way, various challenges were addressed, including RF power consumption, wakefield effects, and unexpected component heating. Key improvements included enhanced temperature monitoring with 600 new sensors, optimized RF spring installation, and the installation of a superconducting wiggler in 2022 to reduce vacuum heating further. As a result, vacuum temperatures now remain below 70°C at 500 mA. Extensive beam studies ensured stability for 29 beamlines, improving signal intensity, signal-to-noise ratio, and sample throughput. NSLS-II successfully operated at 500 mA in August 2023, with increasing high-current operational periods scheduled each year to enhance user experiments.G. Wang, Y. Hidaka, D. Padrazo, F. Gao, J. Rose, R. Todd, T. Shaftan, T. Tanabe, V. Smaluk  Brookhaven National LaboratoryPaper: THP006DOI: reference for this paper: 10.18429/JACoW-NAPAC2025-THP006About:  Received: 21 Aug 2025 — Revised: 03 Sep 2025 — Accepted: 04 Sep 2025 — Issue date: 08 Oct 2025 Cite: reference for this paper using: BibTeX, LaTeX, Text/Word, RIS, EndNote


THP007Analytical model for the transition to superradiance in seeded free-electron lasers950Free-electron lasers (FEL) seeded by short radiation pulses can exhibit superradiant behavior. In the superradiant regime, the pulse simultaneously compresses and amplifies as it propagates through the FEL, making superradiance very promising for pushing the performance limits of attosecond x-ray FELs. To date, this regime has been studied in asymptotic limits, but there is no model for how the initially linear dynamics of the seeded FEL transition into the nonlinear superradiant behavior. We derive an analytical model for the 1D FEL seeded by a short pulse which accurately captures the linear dynamics, the nonlinear superradiant evolution, and the smooth transition between them. Our model fills a critical gap in our understanding of FEL superradiance and nonlinear time-dependent FEL physics more broadly, and may provide a bridge to the corresponding problem in three-dimensions, and analogous problems in other fields exhibiting soliton behavior.R. Robles  Stanford UniversityA. Marinelli, E. Hemsing  SLAC National Accelerator LaboratoryG. Stupakov  xLight IncorporatedPaper: THP007DOI: reference for this paper: 10.18429/JACoW-NAPAC2025-THP007About:  Received: 08 Aug 2025 — Revised: 12 Aug 2025 — Accepted: 13 Aug 2025 — Issue date: 08 Oct 2025 Cite: reference for this paper using: BibTeX, LaTeX, Text/Word, RIS, EndNote


THP008An electrostatic fusion collider for interstellar propulsion954In order to reach the nearest star Proxima Centauri within a century, a distance of 4.224 light-years from our solar system, the average spacecraft velocity needs to be 4.2% of the speed of light. Therefore, according to the rocket equation, the weighted average exhaust velocity needs to be over 1% of the speed of light for reasonable ratios of dry mass to fuel mass. The fusion reactor architecture presented herein consists of an electrostatic charged particle trap that brings two ion beams into collision with equal and opposite momentum. The two fusion channels under consideration for interstellar missions are p/Li7 and He3/He3, utilizing an array of low mass electrodes that minimize interactions with fusion daughters escaping from the collision point and focused to generate thrust. A prototype colliding beam accelerator has been built to determine the viability of achieving collider luminosities commensurate with the requirements of this application. A novel architecture overcomes past Coulomb scattering limitations. Reactor and propulsion system design parameters are presented in this paper along with preliminary prototype operational results with deuterium collisions.G. Bittlingmaier, A. Lee  Beam Alpha IncorporatedG. Jackson  Hbar Technologies, LLCPaper: THP008DOI: reference for this paper: 10.18429/JACoW-NAPAC2025-THP008About:  Received: 08 Aug 2025 — Revised: 12 Aug 2025 — Accepted: 14 Aug 2025 — Issue date: 08 Oct 2025 Cite: reference for this paper using: BibTeX, LaTeX, Text/Word, RIS, EndNote


THP009Automatic measurement of the stray magnetic field in the RCS locations of RHIC by using the SPOT robot957The Electron Ion Collider (EIC) will collide high energy and highly polarized hadron and electron beams with luminosities up to 10^34/cm^2/s. In the Conceptual Design Report baseline scope, the electron beams, accelerated in the Rapid Cycling Synchrotron (RCS), are vulnerable to the outside magnetic field due to its low injection energy at 400 MeV. In addition, when the Hadron Storage Ring (HSR) and Electron Storage Ring (ESR) are in operation, the leaking field from the HSR might also affect the operation of RCS, because they are close to each other. Mapping the stray magnetic field throughout the Relativistic Heavy Ion Collider (RHIC) tunnel is essential to assess its impact on potential low-energy electron beam injection. A robot dog (SPOT) is used to automate the measurement of this stray magnetic field during the RHIC (or future EIC) operation at any location continuously. This quadrupedal robotic technology can also be applied to other future applications, including radiation, temperature, pressure, and other properties measurement during EIC operation.P. Xu, A. Sukhanov, D. Toner, H. Huang, K. Drees, O. Dim, Q. Wu, W. Stern, Y. Cui, Y. Luo  Brookhaven National LaboratoryH. Witte  Massachusetts Institute of TechnologyPaper: THP009DOI: reference for this paper: 10.18429/JACoW-NAPAC2025-THP009About:  Received: 08 Aug 2025 — Revised: 14 Aug 2025 — Accepted: 14 Aug 2025 — Issue date: 08 Oct 2025 Cite: reference for this paper using: BibTeX, LaTeX, Text/Word, RIS, EndNote


THP011Beam bunchers for LANSCE modification project961The Los Alamos Neutron Science Center (LANSCE) accelerator complex delivers both protons and negative hydrogen ions with various beam time patterns simultaneously to multiple users. The LANSCE linac front end is still based on Cockcroft-Walton voltage generators. An upgrade of the front end to a modern, RFQ-based version – a part of the LANSCE Modernization Project (LAMP) – is now in the conceptual design stage. The LAMP will need beam bunchers both in the low-energy transport (LEBT, 100 keV) before RFQ, and in the medium-energy transport (MEBT, 3 MeV) after RFQ. We use CST modeling to develop buncher cavities for LAMP. A few RF cavity types for MEBT: re-entrant, quarter-wave, and half-wave – are considered and compared. The LEBT low-frequency buncher is different: it is based on a two-gap structure driven by an LC-circuit and used for beam velocity bunching.S. Kurennoy  Los Alamos National LaboratoryPaper: THP011DOI: reference for this paper: 10.18429/JACoW-NAPAC2025-THP011About:  Received: 08 Aug 2025 — Revised: 13 Aug 2025 — Accepted: 14 Aug 2025 — Issue date: 08 Oct 2025 Cite: reference for this paper using: BibTeX, LaTeX, Text/Word, RIS, EndNote


THP012Beam dynamics in LANSCE accelerator facility with lower energy964In operation of the LANSCE accelerator facility, occasionally it is required to provide beam at a lower beam energy than the nominal energy of 800 MeV. In this paper we examine the regime when the last sector of the LANSCE linear accelerator is off, so that the beam energy becomes 700 MeV. The purpose of our study is to evaluate beam quality and required changes in the accelerator setup. Simulations of lower energy beam dynamics were performed starting from the beginning of Coupled-Cavity Linac through Switchyard and beamlines to Proton Storage Ring (PSR), followed by the process of beam accumulation in PSR. The original design of injection beamline to the Proton Storage Ring at nominal energy of 800 MeV assumes elimination of cross-terms in beam 6D sigma-matrix at the point of injection to PSR; however, these terms are amplified when 700-MeV beam is injected. Comparison of beam dynamics with nominal and lower energy operation is presented.Y. Batygin, E. Henestroza, S. Kurennoy  Los Alamos National LaboratoryPaper: THP012DOI: reference for this paper: 10.18429/JACoW-NAPAC2025-THP012About:  Received: 31 Jul 2025 — Revised: 11 Aug 2025 — Accepted: 12 Aug 2025 — Issue date: 08 Oct 2025 Cite: reference for this paper using: BibTeX, LaTeX, Text/Word, RIS, EndNote


THP013Beamline optics design of a new two-room treatment suite at the McLaren Proton Therapy Center968A fixed-beam, two room suite with upright chairs for patient positioning, is being installed at the McLaren Proton Therapy Center (MPTC). The MPTC is an operational, multi-room cancer treatment center. The new suite adds a third (A) and fourth (B) room by branching off upstream of the two clinically active half-gantry treatment rooms. This imposed a number of constraints on the beamlines of the new suite. The new beamline uses a Y-shaped selection dipole to switch between the suite’s room A and room B. The design was further constrained by the need to replicate the clinically active rooms’ beam characteristics at the new patient locations. This paper provides an overview of the methodology of the design studies for the new beamlines together with selected results. The work helped to establish the feasibility of installing a two-room treatment suite into a space originally designed for a gantry-based single treatment room.G. Gillespie  G. H. Gillespie Associates (United States)J. Gordon  Pyramid Technical Consultants (United States)J. Konzer  McLaren Regional Medical CenterPaper: THP013DOI: reference for this paper: 10.18429/JACoW-NAPAC2025-THP013About:  Received: 07 Aug 2025 — Revised: 11 Aug 2025 — Accepted: 12 Aug 2025 — Issue date: 08 Oct 2025 Cite: reference for this paper using: BibTeX, LaTeX, Text/Word, RIS, EndNote


THP014Beam loss modeling and mitigation due to intra-beam stripping971Intra-Beam Stripping (IBS) is a critical beam loss mechanism in high-intensity H- linacs and presents a significant limitation to increasing beam power. This work presents a computational framework to evaluate and mitigate IBS-induced beam loss along the Spallation Neutron Source (SNS) LINAC. Our calculation is based on an analytic theory and involves evaluation of a 9D integral using the Monte-Carlo technique. We first benchmarked our calculations against simplified, analytically solvable cases. We then applied our algorithm to Gaussian bunches with a known probability density function (PDF). We next expanded our algorithm to arbitrary bunch distributions using the Neural Spline Flow (NSF) models trained on PyORBIT tracking data. In the future, we plan to validate our algorithm experimentally and apply it to design IBS mitigation strategies.S. Kakkar, L. Lee  University of Tennessee at KnoxvilleA. Zhukov, A. Hoover, N. Evans, V. Morozov  Oak Ridge National LaboratoryPaper: THP014DOI: reference for this paper: 10.18429/JACoW-NAPAC2025-THP014About:  Received: 07 Aug 2025 — Revised: 15 Aug 2025 — Accepted: 15 Aug 2025 — Issue date: 08 Oct 2025 Cite: reference for this paper using: BibTeX, LaTeX, Text/Word, RIS, EndNote


THP015BeamNetUS at Brookhaven National Laboratory975BeamNetUS is a national network of accelerator facilities that aims to provide broader access to the unique capabilities of accelerated particle beams. Two facilities at Brookhaven National Laboratory are part of the inaugural year of BeamNetUS, the Accelerator Test Facility (ATF) and the Low Energy Accelerator Development (LEAD) facility, and are scheduled to each host one BeamNetUS user experiment. The ATF features an RF photocathode electron LINAC, a femtosecond Ti:Sa laser, and a high-peak-power long-wave infrared (LWIR) laser. These tools can be synchronized for joint use or operated individually, facilitating the development of advanced beam manipulation and measurement techniques, accelerator and laser technologies, and the exploration of low-plasma-density regimes. The LEAD facility provides an ultrafast electron diffraction (UED) apparatus, utilizing an RF electron gun and Ti:Sa laser to enable dynamic studies of material structures, as well as investigations involving low-energy electron beams. In addition to these two accelerator facilities, Brookhaven National Laboratory provides administrative support for the network. Further expansion is planned for 2026, including both increased user hours at ATF and LEAD as well as the potential inclusion of several other facilities at the lab.W. Li, A. Lueangaramwong, D. Choge, I. Pogorelsky, M. Babzien, M. Palmer, M. Ilardi, M. Fedurin, M. Polyanskiy, N. Ramistella, S. Shchelkunov, Y. Sakai  Brookhaven National LaboratoryN. Vafaei-Najafabadi  Stony Brook UniversityPaper: THP015DOI: reference for this paper: 10.18429/JACoW-NAPAC2025-THP015About:  Received: 06 Aug 2025 — Revised: 12 Aug 2025 — Accepted: 15 Aug 2025 — Issue date: 08 Oct 2025 Cite: reference for this paper using: BibTeX, LaTeX, Text/Word, RIS, EndNote


THP017Calculations of emittance measurements via inverse Compton scattering978Recent simulation work has indicated that next generation photoinjectors will be capable of delivering beams with emittances below 100 nm for bunch charges of a few hundred pico-Coulombs. Experimentally validating these results by measuring such emittances is challenging due to the high resolution required. Additionally, in some cases it is desirable for these characterization measurements to be non-destructive, and to have the capability of selecting subsets of the beam. One technique that has been considered is the use of inverse Compton scattering (ICS) spectra to measure the emittance. Here we present simulation results on the use of ICS to measure 50 nm – 500 nm emittances for a 250 pC bunch charge electron beam.M. Kaemingk, E. Simakov, P. Anisimov  Los Alamos National LaboratoryJ. Rosenzweig  University of California, Los AngelesPaper: THP017DOI: reference for this paper: 10.18429/JACoW-NAPAC2025-THP017About:  Received: 07 Aug 2025 — Revised: 11 Aug 2025 — Accepted: 14 Aug 2025 — Issue date: 08 Oct 2025 Cite: reference for this paper using: BibTeX, LaTeX, Text/Word, RIS, EndNote


THP018Cesium Telluride Photocathodes: PLD assisted Epitaxial GrowthPhotocathodes are fundamental to the advancement of electron accelerators and photon detectors. While ultrasmooth photocathodes produced by co-deposition processes have been developed*, their beam brightness remains limited by surface and bulk disorders inherent to polycrystalline structures. Epitaxial growth offers a transformative pathway to address these challenges, enabling the production of high-brightness electron beams**. This work reports the pulsed laser deposition (PLD) assisted epitaxial growth of Cs2Te photocathodes on lattice-matched single-crystal substrates. Real-time growth monitoring via X-ray fluorescence (XRF) confirmed stoichiometric composition, while growth oscillations provided insights into the deposition process. The epitaxial nature of the films, characterized by a flat surface and high crystallinity, is validated through reflection high-energy electron diffraction (RHEED). Bulk crystallinity was further studied through X-ray diffraction (XRD) analysis. Spectral response of quantum efficiency (QE) with wavelength range 200 nm to 400 nm has been reportedK. Mondal, M. Goawei, K. Evans-Lutterodt, J. Jordan-Sweet, P. Saha  Brookhaven National LaboratoryE. Echeverria, C. Pennington  Cornell University (CLASSE)T. Juffmann  University of ViennaS. Karkare  Arizona State UniversityJ. Maxson  Cornell UniversityS. Molen, W. Stam  Leiden UniversityJ. Smedley  SLAC National Accelerator LaboratoryR. Tromp  IBM Research - Thomas J. Watson Research CenterCite: reference for this paper using: BibTeX, LaTeX, Text/Word, RIS, EndNote


THP019Commissioning of the Complex Bend Prototype Beamline981For the NSLS-II upgrade, a novel Complex Bend (CB) optics solution has been proposed to achieve near-diffraction-limited emittance. A key challenge in this design is the requirement for high-gradient quadrupoles (150 T/m) in a compact space. To demonstrate feasibility, a CB prototype was developed and tested using the NSLS-II linac beamline, scaling the beam energy to 100–200 MeV while maintaining strong focusing. The prototype utilized a 16-wedge symmetric Halbach permanent magnet design, achieving a gradient of 140 T/m within ultra-compact quadrupoles. The CB beamline was installed and commissioned in two phases, first as a strong periodic focusing element and later as a combined bending and focusing system. The beam commissioning results showed good agreement with theoretical models, confirming that the Complex Bend functions effectively as both a strong focusing and bending element by offsetting CB poles. This validates the strong focusing design of the Complex Bend for future synchrotron light source upgrades.G. Wang, Y. Hidaka, B. Bacha, B. Kosciuk, D. Padrazo, F. DePaola, J. Choi, L. Doom, M. Song, R. Gambella, R. Todd, S. Sharma, T. Shaftan, V. Smaluk, X. Yang  Brookhaven National LaboratoryPaper: THP019DOI: reference for this paper: 10.18429/JACoW-NAPAC2025-THP019About:  Received: 21 Aug 2025 — Revised: 26 Aug 2025 — Accepted: 27 Aug 2025 — Issue date: 08 Oct 2025 Cite: reference for this paper using: BibTeX, LaTeX, Text/Word, RIS, EndNote


THP020Critical design issues of the novel multi-beam LANSCE front end985The proposed novel 100 MeV injector for the modernization of the LANSCE Accelerator Facility* is aimed to replace the existing injector based on 750-keV Cockcroft-Walton columns. The specific feature of the LANSCE accelerator is the simultaneous delivery of beams with multiple beam flavors to several targets. Acceleration of various beams in a single RFQ provides less flexibility for optimal adjustment of acceleration and focusing parameters concerning the existing LANSCE setup caused by differences in beam current, charge per bunch, and beam emittances. An important issue in the low-energy beam transport of the proposed injector is the different levels of space charge neutralization of the multi-component beam. Coupling between degrees of freedom in the presence of strong space charge forces of the beams results in unavoidable beam mismatch in the Front End and requires careful six-dimensional matching of beams with accelerator structures. The paper discusses key issues in the planned Front End and suggests ways to mitigate them.Y. Batygin  Los Alamos National LaboratoryPaper: THP020DOI: reference for this paper: 10.18429/JACoW-NAPAC2025-THP020About:  Received: 02 Aug 2025 — Revised: 10 Aug 2025 — Accepted: 14 Aug 2025 — Issue date: 08 Oct 2025 Cite: reference for this paper using: BibTeX, LaTeX, Text/Word, RIS, EndNote


THP021IOTA experiment for proton pulse compression at extreme space-charge989A gammaT scheme may be required for the PIP-II era performance or ACE-MIRT era performance of the Booster. PIP-II era operations of the Fermilab proton complex will require the Fermilab Booster to increase beam intensity from 4.5e12 to 6.5e12 protons, while also increasing its ramp from 15 Hz to 20 Hz. These changes pose particular challenges for transition-crossing in the Booster, where longitudinal beam quality must be controlled in order to facilitate slip-stacking in the Recycler Ring later in the Main Injector cycle. Two novel gammaT jump schemes are proposed, termed “double gammaT jump” and “partial gammaT jump”, which optimize the magnitude of the gammaT jump within optics and power supply constraints.J. Eldred, D. Neuffer, J. Ostiguy  Fermi National Accelerator LaboratoryPaper: THP021DOI: reference for this paper: 10.18429/JACoW-NAPAC2025-THP021About:  Received: 14 Aug 2025 — Revised: 20 Aug 2025 — Accepted: 20 Aug 2025 — Issue date: 08 Oct 2025 Cite: reference for this paper using: BibTeX, LaTeX, Text/Word, RIS, EndNote


THP022Design of a microbunched electron cooler energy recovery linac993Microbunched electron Cooling (MBEC), a type of Coherent electron Cooling (CeC), is a possible way to cool high energy protons; such an electron cooler can be driven by an energy recovery linac (ERL). The beam parameters of this design are based on cooling 275 and 100 GeV protons at the Electron-Ion Collider (EIC), requiring 150 and 55 MeV electrons, respectively. If implemented, a high energy cooler would serve to increase the average luminosity of the collider by mitigating the emittance growth caused by various processes. This ERL is designed to deliver a bunch charge of 1 nC, an average current of 100 mA, and strict requirements on the transverse emittance, slice energy spread, and longitudinal distribution profile. This paper covers the current state of the design.K. Deitrick, S. Benson, B. Gamage, J. Guo, I. Neththikumara, R. Rimmer, S. Setiniyaz, T. Satogata  Thomas Jefferson National Accelerator FacilityN. Sereno  Thomas Jefferson National Accelerator Facility, Argonne National LaboratoryB. Dunham, C. Mayes  SLAC National Accelerator LaboratoryC. Gulliford, K. Smolenski, N. Taylor, R. Eichhorn  Xelera Research (United States)W. Bergan, D. Kayran, E. Wang, D. Xu  Brookhaven National LaboratoryN. Wang  Cornell UniversityJ. Conway  Oak Ridge National LaboratoryPaper: THP022DOI: reference for this paper: 10.18429/JACoW-NAPAC2025-THP022About:  Received: 08 Aug 2025 — Revised: 12 Aug 2025 — Accepted: 17 Aug 2025 — Issue date: 08 Oct 2025 Cite: reference for this paper using: BibTeX, LaTeX, Text/Word, RIS, EndNote


THP023Design Optimization of a Dual Energy Electron Storage Ring Cooler for Improved Cooling PerformanceA dual energy electron storage ring cooler was proposed to maintain a good hadron beam quality against intra-beam scattering and all heating sources in a collider. This configuration has two energy loops. Electron beam in the low energy loop extracts heat away from the hadron beam through Coulomb interaction, while electron beam in the high energy loop loses heat through its intrinsic synchrotron radiation damping. Early studies of this concept show promising results and demonstrate its validity. This paper presented further optimization of optics design and parameters, and evaluation of improved cooling performance.F. Lin, V. Morozov  Oak Ridge National LaboratoryB. Dhital  Brookhaven National LaboratoryG. Krafft, H. Zhang, J. Guo, S. Benson, Y. Zhang  Thomas Jefferson National Accelerator FacilityCite: reference for this paper using: BibTeX, LaTeX, Text/Word, RIS, EndNote


THP024Design Update of the ATLAS Multi-User Upgrade at ArgonneThe ongoing multi-user upgrade of the superconducting ion linac, ATLAS at Argonne, will enable simultaneous acceleration and delivery of two different ion beams to different experimental areas. In the initial phase, one stable, nearly continuous wave, beam from the ECR ion source and one pulsed radioactive beam from the EBIS charge breeder of nuCARIBU will be interleaved in time via an electrostatic deflector at injection and accelerated through the first two sections of the linac. At that point, one of the beams is deflected via a pulsed switching magnet to a lower energy experimental area while the other is sent for further acceleration in the third section of the linac and delivered to a higher energy experimental area. In addition to enhancing the nuclear physics program at ATLAS, this upgrade will also increase the availability of beam time for some applications. While the construction and installation of the new pulsed injection beamline is now complete, there has been a change in the design of the extraction beamline. The original chicane designed to bypass the existing 40-deg bend has been removed, and the existing beamline was modified to incorporate the kicker and septum as the only required magnets. Details of the final design and progress made will be presented.B. Mustapha, A. Barcikowski, C. Dickerson, G. Savard, M. Hendricks, W. Wittmer  Argonne National LaboratoryCite: reference for this paper using: BibTeX, LaTeX, Text/Word, RIS, EndNote


THP025Development of sodium potassium antimonide photocathodes for use of coherent electron cooling997The Coherent Electron Cooling (CeC) technique is a breakthrough in accelerator science, enhancing ion beam brightness in facilities like the Electron-Ion Collider (EIC)*. The success of CeC relies on high-performance photocathodes (PCs) for photoinjectors, where ideal PCs exhibit high QE, low emittance, long lifetimes, and minimal dark current. Alkali antimonide PCs meet these requirements. Among these, Na-K-Sb shows enhanced robustness, particularly under high-temperature conditions from high-power laser illumination, which generates high current electron beams. It also demonstrates improved vacuum stability and long-term QE consistency compared to other alkali antimonides like K2CsSb and Cs3Sb. These attributes make Na-K-Sb an effective choice for applications requiring both thermal and vacuum stability. This work presents the growth of Na-K-Sb PCs using the CeC cathode deposition system**, alongside detailed QE measurements and spatially resolved QE maps. These findings highlight the potential of Na-K-Sb PCs to advance CeC performance significantly and foster the development of high current, high-brightness electron sources for broader applicationsK. Mondal, M. Goawei, L. Cultrera, J. Walsh, R. Bagy  Brookhaven National LaboratoryY. Yang  State University of New York at Stony BrookPaper: THP025DOI: reference for this paper: 10.18429/JACoW-NAPAC2025-THP025About:  Received: 08 Aug 2025 — Revised: 12 Aug 2025 — Accepted: 12 Aug 2025 — Issue date: 08 Oct 2025 Cite: reference for this paper using: BibTeX, LaTeX, Text/Word, RIS, EndNote


THP026Development of superconducting adaptive gap undulator (SC-AGU)1000The concept of the AGU has been proposed for some time*. However, utilizing a permanent magnet-based device complicates the design due to the necessity of independent gap control for each segment and, in the case of an in-vacuum undulator, the requirement for a flexible continuity sheet to mitigate image current heating. The adoption of SC magnets eliminates these concerns. The SC-AGU prototype will comprise three sections of magnetic arrays with a total length of 120 cm, with the central section featuring a smaller gap than the end units. To achieve this, a UHV chamber will be designed for eventual fabrication, incorporating a non-uniform aperture that conforms to the beam envelope. Furthermore, to maintain a constant fundamental photon energy and maximize on-axis spontaneous emission, each SC section will be engineered with distinct period lengths, with the central section possessing a shorter period than the end units. This paper presents the methodology for end-field analysis, encompassing detailed simulations to characterize the magnetic field distribution at the extremities of each magnetic array. Particular emphasis is placed on the impact of field quality at junctions and its influence on radiation properties, ensuring the optimization of on-axis spontaneous emission while preserving the electron beam’s ‘stay-clear’ area and mitigating impedance constraints imposed by the undulator magnet structure.T. Tanabe, D. Hidas, J. Rank, M. Musardo, P. N'gotta, T. Brookbank  Brookhaven National LaboratoryPaper: THP026DOI: reference for this paper: 10.18429/JACoW-NAPAC2025-THP026About:  Received: 05 Aug 2025 — Revised: 12 Aug 2025 — Accepted: 14 Aug 2025 — Issue date: 08 Oct 2025 Cite: reference for this paper using: BibTeX, LaTeX, Text/Word, RIS, EndNote


THP027Development of the rocking curve imaging setup at BL17-2 at SSRL1004We report on the implementation of the rocking curve imaging setup with a silicon (111) channel-cut crystal beam expander at Stanford Synchrotron Radiation Light source (SSRL) B17-2. B17-2 is a high-brightness, in-vacuum undulator (IVU) hard X-ray (~5 – 18 keV) beamline optimized for material scattering applications. Recently, we utilized it to perform rocking curve imaging (RCI) of diamond and silicon crystals. The expander is installed in addition to the previously existing RCI optics setup. We achieved horizontal beam magnifications of up to 1.38x at 6.951 keV and 2.25x at 9.831 keV. This work presents the updated RCI setup and experimental results to validate the performance of the Si (111) expander. Future improvements to the setup are also mentioned.M. Balcazar, Y. Hong, A. Halavanau, C. Takacs, D. Zhu, R. Arthur, T. Sato  SLAC National Accelerator LaboratoryR. Robles  Stanford UniversityPaper: THP027DOI: reference for this paper: 10.18429/JACoW-NAPAC2025-THP027About:  Received: 11 Aug 2025 — Revised: 26 Aug 2025 — Accepted: 26 Aug 2025 — Issue date: 08 Oct 2025 Cite: reference for this paper using: BibTeX, LaTeX, Text/Word, RIS, EndNote


THP028Digital twin framework for PIP-II linac: AI-driven multi-scale modeling from ion source to 800 MeV1007The PIP-II linac will enable >1.2 MW beam power for DUNE, requiring unprecedented operational reliability across its warm front-end (RFQ, MEBT) and five distinct SRF sections operating at 162.5/325/650 MHz. We present a comprehensive digital twin framework uniquely combining a fully differentiable fast beam transport code with neural network surrogates trained on high-fidelity PIC simulations, capturing space charge and nonlinear dynamics beyond traditional envelope codes while achieving 10⁴× speedup at &LT1% accuracy. End-to-end differentiability enables gradient-based optimization across 500+ parameters simultaneously—previously impossible with conventional tools—while the model incorporates static/dynamic errors and serves as a virtual commissioning platform for diverse hardware integration. The framework facilitates reinforcement learning for pulsed/CW mode transitions, predictive maintenance through anomaly detection, and autonomous tuning algorithm development with real-time execution capability. Validation against physics simulations shows excellent agreement for the front-end, with initial results demonstrating potential for 30% commissioning time reduction and proactive fault mitigation, providing a scalable blueprint for operating next-generation high-intensity accelerators.A. Pathak, P. Hanlet, T. Miceli  Fermi National Accelerator LaboratoryPaper: THP028DOI: reference for this paper: 10.18429/JACoW-NAPAC2025-THP028About:  Received: 12 Aug 2025 — Revised: 14 Aug 2025 — Accepted: 14 Aug 2025 — Issue date: 08 Oct 2025 Cite: reference for this paper using: BibTeX, LaTeX, Text/Word, RIS, EndNote


THP029Distributed Drive Linac Architecture for Compact AcceleratorsThe performance of solid-state amplifiers, across a range of metrics, has improved to the point where it is possible to construct a compact accelerator from individually phased and powered single-cell cavities. This distributed drive linear accelerator (DDL) architecture can provide significant advantages over conventional architectures in terms of power efficiency, redundancy, modularity, flexibility of operation, and fault tolerance. Compact DDL accelerators can fill increasing needs for medical and commercial applications, as well as more traditional roles in research, education and security. We have been studying how to advance this concept at Los Alamos National Laboratory, with a specific focus on a few-MeV, high-average-power concept, and overview our efforts and key results on power requirements, beam transport, and structure design.L. Duffy, B. Sims, B. Carlsten, E. Olivas, J. Lewellen, J. Yoskowitz, M. Kaemingk, P. Anisimov, S. Mano  Los Alamos National LaboratoryS. Burke  University of California, San DiegoCite: reference for this paper using: BibTeX, LaTeX, Text/Word, RIS, EndNote


THP030Emulation of two-pass gain in a cavity-based XFEL via self-seeding at LCLS1011This work presents an experimental study emulating a two-pass gain scenario in a cavity-based X-ray free-electron laser (CBXFEL) using a self-seeding configuration at LCLS. In this “7+7” arrangement, radiation generated by the first seven hard X-ray undulators (HXUs) is spectrally filtered by a high-resolution self-seeding crystal monochromator and used to seed a second set of seven undulators downstream. This setup mimics the regenerative amplification process expected in the CBXFEL cavity, where the seed pulse is recirculated and overlapped with a second trailing electron bunch. By systematically reducing the number of post-crystal undulators (from 13 to 5), we quantified the spectral amplification ratio by comparing the self-seeded peak signal to the SASE background. These results confirm the feasibility of seeding with the initial seven HXUs and provide a valuable benchmark for extrapolating gain in future two-bunch CBXFEL demonstration experiments.A. Halavanau, D. Zhu, F. Decker, M. Balcazar, A. Lutman, Z. Huang  SLAC National Accelerator LaboratoryJ. Tang  Stanford UniversityPaper: THP030DOI: reference for this paper: 10.18429/JACoW-NAPAC2025-THP030About:  Received: 14 Aug 2025 — Revised: 14 Aug 2025 — Accepted: 15 Aug 2025 — Issue date: 08 Oct 2025 Cite: reference for this paper using: BibTeX, LaTeX, Text/Word, RIS, EndNote


THP031Evaluating a transition-jump system for the Fermilab Main Injector using Xsuite1015We describe the development of a MADX-to-Xsuite simulation framework for the Fermilab Main Injector (MI) along with the subsequent evaluation of transition-crossing behaviors in the accelerator. In particular, we studied the introduction of quadrupole magnets into the lattice as part of a transition-jump system that will be implemented in the machine through the Second Proton Improvement Plan (PIP-II). Simulated beam losses spurred by transition-induced instabilities were assessed under several systematic effects, including MI quad errors, magnet-to-magnet variability in the jump magnets, emulated power supply errors, and timing jitter.A. Schreckenberger, M. Xiao, R. Ainsworth  Fermi National Accelerator LaboratoryPaper: THP031DOI: reference for this paper: 10.18429/JACoW-NAPAC2025-THP031About:  Received: 21 Jul 2025 — Revised: 12 Aug 2025 — Accepted: 13 Aug 2025 — Issue date: 08 Oct 2025 Cite: reference for this paper using: BibTeX, LaTeX, Text/Word, RIS, EndNote


THP032Experimental demonstration of terahertz transport using overmoded iris-line waveguideThe need for THz pulses with 100 µJs of pulse energies at a 100 kHz (or higher) repetition rate that are well synchronized with X-ray free electron laser (XFEL) pulses is paramount to studying novel ultrafast phenomena. Efficient THz generation (3 – 20 THz), coupling, and transport over long distances has posed several challenge. In particular, THz wavelengths makes it impractical to rely on metal waveguide for long distance transport, while free space propagation is prone to strong diffraction. In addition, water absorption causes significant attenuation to THz propagation. We present a tabletop experiment to demonstrate efficient transportation of THz radiation at 3.25 THz using metallic irises. This experiment demonstrates efficient transport of THz radiation over 20 meter distances which notable behavior of slower attenuation compared to free space propagation.M. Othman  SLAC National Accelerator LaboratoryCite: reference for this paper using: BibTeX, LaTeX, Text/Word, RIS, EndNote


THP033Feasibility of proton bunch compression in an operational high-power accelerator1019A muon collider would require short, intense proton bunches to generate the initial muon beam. Preliminary designs assume the proton bunches are formed by charge-exchange injection from a linear accelerator into an accumulator ring, followed by longitudinal compression in a separate ring. We aim to experimentally study this compression scheme at the Spallation Neutron Source (SNS) at Oak Ridge National Laboratory (ORNL), which boasts a world-leading proton bunch intensity. The primary goal of these experiments is to benchmark simulations against turn-by-turn phase space measurements during the compression. Here, we describe the operating parameters of the SNS compared to the muon collider design, the capabilities of the current RF system, and the available beam diagnostics in the SNS accumulator ring. We also present initial simulations and experiments to judge the feasibility of the proposed research.A. Hoover, A. Narayan, M. Piller, V. Morozov  Oak Ridge National LaboratoryPaper: THP033DOI: reference for this paper: 10.18429/JACoW-NAPAC2025-THP033About:  Received: 08 Aug 2025 — Revised: 11 Aug 2025 — Accepted: 13 Aug 2025 — Issue date: 08 Oct 2025 Cite: reference for this paper using: BibTeX, LaTeX, Text/Word, RIS, EndNote


THP034Feasibility studies of the stochastic cooling system in the proton storage ring EDM experiment1023This study explores the feasibility of implementing stochastic cooling in the proposed proton electric dipole moment (pEDM) storage ring to be constructed at Brookhaven National Laboratory. Investigating fundamental physics phenomena, such as the electric dipole moment (EDM) of protons, demands highly precise experimental setups. In such precision experiments, intra-beam scattering (IBS) causes emittance growth, which degrades beam quality and limits the spin coherence time (SCT), a key parameter for sensitive EDM detection. The integration of a stochastic cooling system for stored polarized proton beams offers a potential solution by mitigating the effects of IBS, suppressing emittance growth, stabilizing beam dynamics, and enhancing the overall efficiency of the storage ring. This paper examines the feasibility of incorporating such a system into the proton EDM storage ring and evaluates its potential to preserve beam polarization and quality, both essential for advancing EDM experiment.B. Dhital, H. Huang, W. Morse, Y. Semertzidis  Brookhaven National LaboratoryPaper: THP034DOI: reference for this paper: 10.18429/JACoW-NAPAC2025-THP034About:  Received: 07 Aug 2025 — Revised: 12 Aug 2025 — Accepted: 14 Aug 2025 — Issue date: 08 Oct 2025 Cite: reference for this paper using: BibTeX, LaTeX, Text/Word, RIS, EndNote


THP035Final design of CARIE photoinjector cavity with plug insert1027At Los Alamos National Laboratory, we finalized the design of a 1.6-cell C-band RF photoinjector cavity for the Cathodes And Radiofrequency Interactions in Extremes (CARIE) project. The photoinjector cavity is intended to operate at 5.712 GHz, with an intense electric field on the photocathode up to 240 MV/m, producing 250-pC electron bunches at room temperature. The photoinjector cavity design focused on minimizing the peak electric and magnetic fields. The distributed RF coupling waveguide network design was optimized for achieving minimized vacuum pressure at the photocathode plug emitting surface. We report the RF simulation and vacuum simulation results of the photoinjector cavity. We also discuss the mechanical design considerations related to photocathode plug alignment, laser pipes, and baking out. The designed photoinjector cavity is currently under fabrication.H. Xu, A. Alexander, E. Simakov, G. Bustos, P. Anisimov, S. Rocha, T. Grumstrup, T. Tajima, W. Choi  Los Alamos National LaboratoryG. Lawler, J. Rosenzweig  University of California, Los AngelesPaper: THP035DOI: reference for this paper: 10.18429/JACoW-NAPAC2025-THP035About:  Received: 06 Aug 2025 — Revised: 12 Aug 2025 — Accepted: 12 Aug 2025 — Issue date: 08 Oct 2025 Cite: reference for this paper using: BibTeX, LaTeX, Text/Word, RIS, EndNote


THP037Force-Neutral Adjustable Phase UndulatorsConventional variable-gap undulators rely on complex and bulky motion and support systems, limiting their tuning speed, precision, and overall efficiency. To address these challenges, RadiaBeam Technologies, in collaboration with Argonne National Laboratory (ANL), is advancing ANL’s Force-Neutral Adjustable Phase Undulator (FNAPU) technology by developing manufacturing capabilities and diagnostics testing capacity for efficient fabrication and reliable quality control of standalone undulator units. FNAPUs utilize a secondary array of “off-the-shelf” permanent magnets that counterbalance the internal magnetic forces of the primary undulator array, enabling a compact, force-neutral structure. This design significantly simplifies assembly, improves alignment precision, and enhances operational safety and user accessibility. Furthermore, the compact and modular architecture of FNAPUs supports novel configurations such as X-undulators as well as enabling the integration of multiple units into undulator matrices, providing wide X-ray energy production via switchyard. These capabilities position FNAPU technology as a promising solution for next-generation light sources, including X-ray free-electron lasers (XFELs) and synchrotron radiation (SR) facilities.N. Burger, J. Freeman, T. Hodgetts, Y. Chen  RadiaBeam Technologies (United States)C. Hall  RadiaSoft (United States)J. Xu  Argonne National LaboratoryCite: reference for this paper using: BibTeX, LaTeX, Text/Word, RIS, EndNote


THP038Four unique features of dynamical friction for magnetized and unmagnetized cooling of relativistic hadron beamsAt energies relevant to electron cooling of future electron-hadron collider designs, the beam-frame interaction time in the cooler becomes short compared to the plasma period. In this regime, the interaction time cannot be taken as infinite for analytic calculations of dynamical friction, and the details of strong scattering with small impact parameter cannot be neglected. Three significant results from previous work (see Refs. $*$,$**$ and $***$) are presented. In the limit of strongly magnetized beams, dynamical friction depends on the sign of the charge. In this same limit, widely used parametric and semi-analytic formulas break down. For unmagnetized cooling, the impact parameters follow a modified Pareto distribution, such that the central limit theorem does not apply. At early times, the friction force is time-dependent in ways that can be surprising.D. Bruhwiler  RadiaSoft (United States)Cite: reference for this paper using: BibTeX, LaTeX, Text/Word, RIS, EndNote


THP039Free-Electron Laser Approaches to 6.x nm Generation for Blue-X LithographyThe shift of light source wavelength from 193 nm (Deep UV) to 13.5 nm (Extreme UV) in modern lithography tools has enabled mass production of semiconductor chips with feature sizes as small as 4 nm. To obtain smaller feature sizes, beyond EUV lithography (also known as Blue-X or EUVL Extension) at 6.x nm has been proposed.* Free-electron lasers (FEL), with output wavelength that is broadly tunable, can generate high-power 6.x-nm light. This paper compares different FEL approaches that have been experimentally demonstrated, albeit at other wavelengths, such as self-amplified spontaneous emission, regenerative amplifier FEL, harmonic lasing, etc. For this comparison, important factors under consideration are the electron beam energy and beam quality requirements, FEL efficiency, pulse energy fluctuations, spectral output, as well as suitability of the FEL output beam for use in Blue-X lithography.D. Nguyen  xLight IncorporatedCite: reference for this paper using: BibTeX, LaTeX, Text/Word, RIS, EndNote


THP040Growth and characterization of GaAs-based spin-polarized photocathodes1030Spin-polarized electron sources find application in both high-energy and nuclear physics experiments. We describe in detail the design and characterization of different photocathodes based on GaAs/GaAsP superlattice structures. These structures are fabricated with a Distributed Bragg Reflector (DBR) aimed at achieving a high quantum efficiency (QE)~ 20\% in addition to a high electron spin polarization (ESP) ~85\% at the desired wavelength of 780 nm. We present the QE and ESP measurements of photoemitted electrons as a function of wavelength of incident light, along with morphological and photoluminescence measurements.P. Saha, J. Walsh, L. Lathpandura, L. Cultrera, M. Boukhicha, R. Bagy, T. Tsang  Brookhaven National LaboratoryA. Muhowski  Sandia National LaboratoriesPaper: THP040DOI: reference for this paper: 10.18429/JACoW-NAPAC2025-THP040About:  Received: 07 Aug 2025 — Revised: 14 Aug 2025 — Accepted: 15 Aug 2025 — Issue date: 08 Oct 2025 Cite: reference for this paper using: BibTeX, LaTeX, Text/Word, RIS, EndNote


THP041High Energy Heavy Ion Single Event Effects (HE HISEE): Planning for the future of microelectronics1034One unique accelerator application is the testing of microelectronics for utilization in space. In particular, space provides two environment challenges that provide exposure to energetic heavy ions: galactic cosmic rays (GCRs) and solar particle events (SPEs). These particles cause risk by depositing charge in microelectronics potentially causing operational errors or even destructive failure. Testing electronics with a variety of ground-based accelerators is not new. What is new is the increasing need for high-energy (> 100 Mev/n) heavy ions with ~40% of all testing predicted to require this high energy by 2030. This is primarily for two reasons: - Mission-enabling advanced stacked microelectronics technologies such as 3D packaged devices that require higher energy to penetrate to the sensitive locations within these devices, and, - Increase in demand to perform system-level testing using “large irradiation area” kinematics. This large area also allows for large sample sizes to be irradiated simultaneously for efficiency. Presently, the is only one domestic accelerator that can achieve high energy heavy ions, that of Brookhaven National Laboratory’s NASA Space Radiation Laboratory. Here, we discuss the requirements needed by the test community and the domestic effort to close the gap in the number of test hours. A current government-funded study is underway to analyze options for the future.S. Biedron  Element AeroA. Lowe, E. Everts, J. Millspaugh, R. Leonard  JRC Integrated Solutions (JRC)D. Marrujo, G. Van Dyk, J. DeFilippi, J. Miller, K. Avery, K. LaBel  Trusted Strategic SolutionsM. Bedel  NSWC Crane DivisionM. Stapleton  Scientific Research Corporation, Contractor support to the Test Resource Management Center (TRMC) Nuclear ModernizationT. Turflinger  The Aerospace CorporationPaper: THP041DOI: reference for this paper: 10.18429/JACoW-NAPAC2025-THP041About:  Received: 08 Aug 2025 — Revised: 11 Aug 2025 — Accepted: 11 Aug 2025 — Issue date: 08 Oct 2025 Cite: reference for this paper using: BibTeX, LaTeX, Text/Word, RIS, EndNote


THP042Hollow-core anti-resonant fiber optics as a path towards practical laser-undulator based X-ray sources1037This talk will outline the potential for commercially available, hollow-core, anti-resonant optical fibers to overcome many of the challenges in creating monochromatic and coherent x-ray sources with laser-electron beam interactions. The differences between inverse Compton scattering and laser undulators will be explored and the immense difficulty in creating a laser undulator outlined. A proposed innovation is to utilize modern day, commercial hollow-core fiber optics to confine the laser and potentially allow for a laser-undulator to be constructed with current state of the art lasers and electron beams. Models of this externally confined laser undulator concept will be presented and plans for upcoming experiments shown.G. Bruhaug, B. Carlsten, E. Simakov, J. Lewellen, J. Schmidt, L. Neukirch, M. Freeman, N. Yampolsky  Los Alamos National LaboratoryA. Chin, G. Collins, N. Kabadi  University of RochesterPaper: THP042DOI: reference for this paper: 10.18429/JACoW-NAPAC2025-THP042About:  Received: 08 Aug 2025 — Revised: 11 Aug 2025 — Accepted: 13 Aug 2025 — Issue date: 08 Oct 2025 Cite: reference for this paper using: BibTeX, LaTeX, Text/Word, RIS, EndNote


THP043Impact of Phase and Amplitude Instabilities on Beam Performance in the FACET-II LINACMaintaining RF stability in ageing accelerator infrastructure is essential for preserving beam quality and experimental integrity. At FACET-II, SLAC’s advanced test facility for high-gradient acceleration research, we investigate the cumulative effects of RF phase and amplitude jitter across legacy LINAC stations. This study quantifies how RF-induced instabilities contribute to inefficient charge delivery, beam loss, and longitudinal decoherence. Using diagnostics such as SYAG and DTOT2, we assess jitter-induced impacts on dispersion and orbit stability, and examine potential convolution into transverse beam losses. Amplitude and phase jitter are analyzed station-by-station, with correlations drawn to beam performance. We also evaluate the role of thermal fluctuations in klystrons and waveguides, and consider whether insulation degradation in SLED cavities may contribute to observed drift. We explore operational strategies to mitigate jitter effects. This work supports improved RF efficacy for better energy delivery, orbit control, and performance in energy-sensitive experiments such as PWFA.M. Parker  SLAC National Accelerator LaboratoryCite: reference for this paper using: BibTeX, LaTeX, Text/Word, RIS, EndNote


THP044Implementation of an automated paradigm for alkali metal - metalloid photocathode growthAlkali metal - metalloid photocathodes with positive electron affinity, such as Cs3Sb, K2CsSb, and Cs2Te, exhibit excellent quantum efficiency and reasonable emittance and lifetime. However, even when grown closed-loop, traditionally quantum efficiency alone is the feedback mechanism. Many advancements in the last decade have studied growth *in situ*, including with x-ray diffraction in beamlines* and in molecular beam epitaxy with reflective high energy electron diffraction.** However, an inexpensive, easily standardized feedback method is also desirable as a means to control stoichiometry during both single- and polycrystalline growth in commercial production. Recently stoichiometric control of cathode growth via a quantum efficiency ratio method has resulted in reliable, repeatable growths.* * * We additionally report the implementation of an evolved high flux elemental cesium evaporator and our experience developing an industrial capacity for alkali metal - metalloid photocathode production. Cesium antimonide cathodes in co-deposition have consistent performance when utilizing carefully characterized fluxes in PID control loops and a slightly cesium-rich growth regime. We argue the automated paradigm for cesium antimonide paves the way for similarly simple yet robust industrial production of other alkali metal - metalloid photocathodes.E. Montgomery  Euclid Beamlabs, LLC, Euclid BeamlabsA. Kanareykin  Euclid Beamlabs, Euclid Beamlabs LLCA. Saidkhodjaev, S. Poddar  Euclid BeamlabsCite: reference for this paper using: BibTeX, LaTeX, Text/Word, RIS, EndNote


THP045Implementation of electron–X-ray beam overlap diagnostic instrument at LCLS1040We report on the commissioning results of the newly implemented Beam Overlap Diagnostic (BOD) instrument, known as Station F, at the hard X-ray line of the Linac Coherent Light Source (LCLS). As part of the CBXFEL project at SLAC, Station F is designed to facilitate alignment between the relativistic electron beam entering the undulator hall and the X-rays returning from the CBXFEL cavity via the return line. The station features two interchangeable targets: (1) a diamond screen for direct imaging of the LCLS electron beam, enabling measurement of its transverse size and position; and (2) a YAP:Ce scintillator for detecting faint returning X-rays when the diamond’s sensitivity is insufficient. Emission from either target, whether generated by electron-induced cathodoluminescence or X-ray-induced scintillation, is captured using a fast-gated optical/UV camera. We present results from recent commissioning runs, including direct electron beam imaging, beam size and position characterization in both single- and two-bunch modes, and observations of coherent radiation linked to early microbunching, with implications for the laser heater configuration.A. Halavanau, D. Zhu, M. Balcazar, A. Lutman, C. Curtis, F. Decker, G. Lanza, H. Wang, M. Montironi, X. Permanyer, Z. Huang  SLAC National Accelerator LaboratoryPaper: THP045DOI: reference for this paper: 10.18429/JACoW-NAPAC2025-THP045About:  Received: 14 Aug 2025 — Revised: 14 Aug 2025 — Accepted: 14 Aug 2025 — Issue date: 08 Oct 2025 Cite: reference for this paper using: BibTeX, LaTeX, Text/Word, RIS, EndNote


THP046Improving sustainability of electron beam linac systemFisica Applied Technologies, inc. (ATI) has designed and built e-beam sterilization systems, Flash-X-Ray systems, and many of the high pulsed power systems in the U.S. over the last 50 years. Our systems often use Sulfur hexafluoride (SF6 ) as an insulating gas. The global warming potential (GWP) of SF6 is approximately 23,500 times greater than carbon dioxide (CO2); because of this, there has been an increase in regulatory scrutiny and efforts to reduce SF6 emissions. Fisica has been successful in replacing SF6 with Dry Air (GWP &LT1) for many pulsed power applications and is investigating the use of other low-GWP gases. In this presentation, we will explore potential alternatives for transitioning our e-beam linac system from SF6 to environmentally sustainable, low-GWP gas alternatives.A. Tylenda, B. Whitney  Fisica Inc. - Applied Technologies Inc.Y. Parker  L3 Power Distribution - Applied TechnologiesCite: reference for this paper using: BibTeX, LaTeX, Text/Word, RIS, EndNote


THP047Isochronous induction cell storage ring1044A challenge in realizing a steady-state microbunching (SSMB) light source is achieving a high average current from a stored beam with a peak current low enough to avoid collective effects that spoil the longitudinal phase space. We plan to investigate resolving this challenge by combining recent advances in isochronous transport and induction cells. The recently commissioned SLS-2 upgrade uses an anti-bend arc cell to control dispersion and reduce emittance.  We use this anti-bend design to yield an arc whose R56 can be adjustable to near-zero on a per-arc basis. This fine control of momentum compaction allows for better mitigation of effects that spoil the longitudinal phase space.  A consequence of RF technology, which most ring-based light sources use, is that high average current can only be achieved by pushing peak current, as only 1-2% of the circumference actually stores current.  High peak current drives other design considerations which result in a fast churning of the longitudinal phase space.  A ring with low peak current to avoid this churning has an average current too low to make a useful SSMB light source.  Induction cells with a reset time of ~10 ns have recently been developed for cinematographic radiography.  An induction cell could allow over 95% of the ring to store current, yielding a high average current and low peak current.  Here we outline an investigation to explore the beam dynamics and technology of such an isochronous induction cell storage ring.M. Ehrlichman, D. Ratner, M. Bai  SLAC National Accelerator LaboratoryR. Boyes  University of Wisconsin–MadisonPaper: THP047DOI: reference for this paper: 10.18429/JACoW-NAPAC2025-THP047About:  Received: 08 Aug 2025 — Revised: 13 Aug 2025 — Accepted: 14 Aug 2025 — Issue date: 08 Oct 2025 Cite: reference for this paper using: BibTeX, LaTeX, Text/Word, RIS, EndNote


THP048LAMP Front-End RFQ optimization for micropulse production1048The LANSCE Modernization Project (LAMP) aims at upgrading the front end of the LANSCE accelerator, involving one single radio-frequency quadrupole (RFQ) at 201.25 MHz for simultaneously accelerating both proton (H+) and negative hydrogen ion (H-) beams from 100 keV to 3 MeV. To meet the diverse set of beam requirements at various user stations, the RFQ must be capable of accelerating a continuous-wave beam as well as a pulsed input beam. For example, with H- beam production, the RFQ accelerates a continuous-wave-like beam for the Lujan Center, and a pulsed beam for the Weapons Neutron Research (WNR) facility. The WNR operational mode is the highlight of the LANSCE accelerator and of the LAMP upgrade. We introduce the design optimization of the RFQ for ensuring that all associated requirements of the LAMP key performance parameters are satisfied. The optimization of the overall configuration of the low energy beam transport (LEBT) beamline for shaping the phase spaces of the WNR beam pulse at the entrance to the RFQ is also addressed.H. Xu, D. Dimitrov, D. Gorelov, J. Upadhyay, K. Bishofberger, L. Rybarcyk, S. Sosa Guitron, S. Kurennoy  Los Alamos National LaboratoryPaper: THP048DOI: reference for this paper: 10.18429/JACoW-NAPAC2025-THP048About:  Received: 05 Aug 2025 — Revised: 12 Aug 2025 — Accepted: 12 Aug 2025 — Issue date: 08 Oct 2025 Cite: reference for this paper using: BibTeX, LaTeX, Text/Word, RIS, EndNote


THP049Leveraging the capabilities of LCLS-II: linking adaptable photoinjector laser shaping to tailored X-ray productionSLAC’s LCLS-II is pioneering high-repetition-rate attosecond X-ray science, enabling new opportunities to optimize X-ray generation by controlling the electron beam at its source—the photoinjector. LCLS-II employs a 20 ps Gaussian UV laser pulse to drive the photocathode, with an added narrow modulation to induce microbunching for extended modes.* Recent advances in laser pulse shaping and frequency upconversion now allow for more sophisticated tailoring of the electron beam at the injector. We present a novel approach using spectral amplitude and phase shaping of the IR laser, followed by dispersion-controlled nonlinear synthesis—relying on phase-modulated noncollinear sum-frequency generation—for UV upconversion.** This enables diverse UV temporal profiles, including flattop and double/triple spikes, offering new degrees of freedom for shaping. Preliminary results from LCLS-II beam time show these modulations produce effective downstream perturbations to the electron bunch at the undulators, demonstrating feasibility for programmable bunch formation. We are integrating this shaping into a start-to-end simulation framework,*** enabling digital twin modeling of the XFEL chain—from photoinjector laser to X-ray output—laying the groundwork for fully tunable, end-to-end optimized, application-specific X-ray pulses.J. Hirschman, R. Robles, P. Franz, V. Guo  Stanford UniversityH. Zhang  University of California, Los Angeles; SLAC National Accelerator Laboratory, SLAC National Accelerator Laboratory, University of California, Los AngelesR. Lemons, B. Mencer, R. Obaid, N. Neveu, D. Cesar, N. Sudar, Z. Zhang, T. Driver, K. Borne, F. Cropp, M. Britton, K. Larsen, B. Kaufman, G. Just, F. Zhou, Y. Ding, Z. Huang, A. Edelen, E. Hemsing, R. Coffee, J. Cryan, A. Marinelli  SLAC National Accelerator LaboratoryJ. Baker, C. Pennington, A. Borthakur, S. Carbajo  University of California, Los AngelesCite: reference for this paper using: BibTeX, LaTeX, Text/Word, RIS, EndNote


THP050Longterm sustainment of electron beam linac systems for e-beam sterilization applicationFisica ATI has delivered turnkey e-beam linac sterilization systems for over three decades. The first installation was in 1992 under the Titan Beta. In 2000, SureBeam was established. Following its acquisition by L3 in 2005, the e-beam product line was consolidated under ATI. ATI continues to deliver high-reliability, fully integrated e-beam solutions for industrial and commercial applications as a division of Fisica. Our systems are engineered for continuous-duty (24/7), with >30 systems installed worldwide collectively logging >1million hours, with some systems in service for >20 years — demonstrating exceptional uptime and long-term durability. ATI provides comprehensive post-sales support, spare parts supply, and system upgrades. In 2024, we introduced a major enhancement: upgrading legacy 10 MeV 15/18 kW systems to 25 kW output—without altering the existing system footprint or significant changes to the major subsystems. This allows current customers to significantly boost throughput without the need for major facility modifications. The upgrade leverages the proven reliability of the existing e-beam sterilization subsystems.Y. Parker  Fisica Inc. - Applied Technologies Inc., L3 Power Distribution - Applied TechnologiesA. Tylenda, B. Whitney, B. Rapp, F. Gower  Fisica Inc. - Applied Technologies Inc.Cite: reference for this paper using: BibTeX, LaTeX, Text/Word, RIS, EndNote


THP051Low Energy Accelerator Development Facility upgrades1051The Low Energy Accelerator Development (LEAD) Facility * is a part of the Accelerators Facilities Division (AFD) of the Brookhaven National Laboratory (BNL). The facility has three capabilities and runs a program specifically targeting new collaborations for user-driven research. The first and the oldest of the capabilities is the Ultrafast Diffraction (UED) Capability. The other two are radiation-shielded bunkers. At the UED the deployment of a new stable solid-state modulator and klystron is in progress. The beamline updates are now going into place for a NASA Jet Propulsion Laboratory ** electron irradiator beamline for Single Event Effects (SEE) testing; and the capability for UED testing is being expanded. In both bunkers (153 and 77 sq. m) a range of cooling, air, electrical, and RF capabilities are presently being introduced. The first bunker will accommodate the Electron Cyclotron Resonance *** (eCRA) Demonstrator (a project together with Omega-P, R&D). The deployment is expected to start in the last quarter of 2025. The second bunker will accommodate the superconducting radiofrequency (SRF) photo-gun **** (a project by Euclid Techlabs, LLC) to be the electron beam source for an envisioned Ultrafast Electron Microscopy (UEM) Capability.S. Shchelkunov, A. Lueangaramwong, G. Stenby III, J. Alzamora, K. Roy, M. Babzien, M. Palmer, M. Peniera, M. Fedurin, T. Ilardi, W. Li, Y. Sakai, A. Simmonds, K. Kusche  Brookhaven National LaboratoryL. Wallace  Stony Brook UniversityV. Janucik  St. John's UniversityR. Muskopf  SUNY New PaltzPaper: THP051DOI: reference for this paper: 10.18429/JACoW-NAPAC2025-THP051About:  Received: 05 Aug 2025 — Revised: 14 Aug 2025 — Accepted: 14 Aug 2025 — Issue date: 08 Oct 2025 Cite: reference for this paper using: BibTeX, LaTeX, Text/Word, RIS, EndNote


THP052Measurements of single-shot attosecond X-ray pulses at high repetition rate1055Electron dynamics in molecules occur on attosecond timescales and drive fundamental processes such as photosynthesis, catalysis, and chemical bond transformations. Understanding these phenomena requires tools with both high temporal resolution and the capability to probe molecular dynamics at high repetition rates. Here, we present the first single-shot measurements of attosecond soft x-ray pulses at the superconducting LCLS-II accelerator. Using an angle-resolving electron time-of-flight spectrometer, we perform angular streaking measurements with high energy and angular resolution, enabling a complete reconstruction of the spatial and temporal profiles of the pulses. These measurements showcase the attosecond science capabilities of LCLS-II at unprecedented repetition rates and provide the foundation for controlling and shaping x-ray pulses to study ultrafast dynamics in complex systems with precision.V. Guo, E. Thierstein, E. Isele, J. Wang, P. Franz, R. Robles  Stanford UniversityA. Marinelli, D. Cesar, J. Cryan, K. Borne, M. Britton, M. Lin, N. Sudar, R. Obaid, T. Driver, X. Li  SLAC National Accelerator LaboratoryPaper: THP052DOI: reference for this paper: 10.18429/JACoW-NAPAC2025-THP052About:  Received: 08 Aug 2025 — Revised: 08 Aug 2025 — Accepted: 09 Aug 2025 — Issue date: 08 Oct 2025 Cite: reference for this paper using: BibTeX, LaTeX, Text/Word, RIS, EndNote


THP053Measuring orbit responses with oscillating trajectories in the Fermilab Linac1057Recording changes in beam transverse positions and longitudinal phase reported by Beam Position Monitors (BPMs) in response to a beam deflection by an upstream dipole corrector or RF cavity phase (orbit response) is a powerful tool for analysis of accelerator optics and assisting with machine tuning. In Fermilab Linac, orbit responses were recorded by oscillating the corrector currents and cavity phases in a sinusoidal manner parasitically during regular operation, simultaneously oscillating up to 19 correctors and 7 cavities at distinct frequencies, providing faster, drift-resistant measurements through frequency-domain analysis. This report describes the technique, including error estimations and consistency checks and shows examples of the measurements.A. Shemyakin, A. Pathak, R. Sharankova  Fermi National Accelerator LaboratoryPaper: THP053DOI: reference for this paper: 10.18429/JACoW-NAPAC2025-THP053About:  Received: 07 Aug 2025 — Revised: 13 Aug 2025 — Accepted: 14 Aug 2025 — Issue date: 08 Oct 2025 Cite: reference for this paper using: BibTeX, LaTeX, Text/Word, RIS, EndNote


THP054Mitigating transition in the Fermilab Booster using a triple phase jump1061The PIP-II project currently under construction will boost neutrino production for DUNE, Fermilab's flagship long baseline neutrino oscillation experiment, by doubling the beam power delivered by the accelerator complex. To accomplish this, the total charge injected from the linac into the existing Booster RCS ring will increase from 4.5 to 6.5E12 while the machine ramp rate will be raised from 15 to 20 Hz. The Booster accelerates beam from 800 to 8000 MeV and crosses transition at $\gamma = 5.45$ In current, pre PIP-II operations, no formal gamma-t jump system is used and the longitudinal emittance blowup is limited with an active quadrupole mode feedback system. Due to the slip-stacking process used in the dowstream Recycler Ring to accumulate and increase bunch intensity, to prevent excessive particle loss the longitudinal emittance at extraction limited is set to 0.1 eV-s (95\%). Given that collective fields scale with intensity, it is anticipated that additional measures will need to be put in place to meet this requirement. We look at the so-called triple phase-jump technique a possible candidates for transition mitigation and present some simulation results. Despite known limitations, attractive aspects of the triple jump are that the phase manipulations are incorporated within the digital LLRF system; no additional magnets or pulsed power supplies are needed and the technique is compatible with active quadrupole mode feedback.J. Ostiguy, C. Bhat  Fermi National Accelerator LaboratoryPaper: THP054DOI: reference for this paper: 10.18429/JACoW-NAPAC2025-THP054About:  Received: 11 Aug 2025 — Revised: 13 Aug 2025 — Accepted: 13 Aug 2025 — Issue date: 08 Oct 2025 Cite: reference for this paper using: BibTeX, LaTeX, Text/Word, RIS, EndNote


THP055Multi-GeV FFA beam transport test at CEBAF1064Jefferson National Lab plans an upgrade project to reach 22 GeV high polarization electron beam by using Fixed Field Alternating-gradient (FFA) magnets. The utilization of the FFA magnets for 10-22 GeV beam energy range is unexampled, therefore those magnets need an experimental validation before their full installation to form an arc in the Continuous Electron Beam Accelerator Facility (CEBAF). For this reason, JLAB is also considering the design of an FFA magnet test bench, i.e. a half or full FFA cell, that would be deployed in the current CEBAF in order to serve as the highest energy demonstration for the FFA field uniformity, permanent magnet resiliency with the beam as well as enabling beam optics measurements with the 5-11 GeV range highly polarized beams which closely resembles the full energy range of the 22 GeV upgrade. In this report, we present the status of the planned beamline for the FFA beam transport test at CEBAF.A. Bogacz, D. Khan, E. Nissen, S. Ogur  Thomas Jefferson National Accelerator FacilityD. Trbojevic, S. Brooks  Brookhaven National LaboratoryPaper: THP055DOI: reference for this paper: 10.18429/JACoW-NAPAC2025-THP055About:  Received: 07 Aug 2025 — Revised: 12 Aug 2025 — Accepted: 13 Aug 2025 — Issue date: 08 Oct 2025 Cite: reference for this paper using: BibTeX, LaTeX, Text/Word, RIS, EndNote


THP056Transport of 12 GeV positron beams at Ce+BAF1067Jefferson Lab (JLab) is developing a concept to upgrade the Continuous Electron Beam Accelerator Facility (CEBAF) to additionally deliver spin-polarized continuous-wave positron beams for its nuclear physics program users (Ce+BAF 12 GeV). The concept involves repurposing the Low Energy Recirculator Facility (LERF) at JLab as a dual injector, first producing 100-300 MeV spin-polarized electron beams which are subsequently used for the generation and formation of 123 MeV continuous-wave positron beams. The positron beams are transported to CEBAF and injected for acceleration up to 12 GeV, tailored to the requirements of its four experimental halls. Given the higher emittance of the secondary positron beams, the CEBAF optics are optimized for low dispersion and low beta functions to enhance transmission within the Ce+BAF acceptance limits and with an R56 to manage the positron beams bunch length and energy spread. Potential bottlenecks are being investigated through both optical modeling and measurements using an electron beam, as well as degraded electron beams, to map the 6d acceptance of CEBAF as it is today. This presentation shares preliminary results from multi-particle tracking simulations of the positron beam up to 12 GeV, including spatial, momentum, and spin characteristics, and explores the feasibility of delivering beams simultaneously to multiple experimental halls via extraction optics.A. Bogacz, A. Sy, A. Seryi, A. Ushakov, D. Turner, J. Benesch, J. Grames, S. Ogur, Y. Roblin  Thomas Jefferson National Accelerator FacilityE. Voutier  Université Paris-Saclay, CNRS/IN2P3, IJCLabV. Lizárraga-Rubio  Universidad de GuanajuatoPaper: THP056DOI: reference for this paper: 10.18429/JACoW-NAPAC2025-THP056About:  Received: 04 Aug 2025 — Revised: 12 Aug 2025 — Accepted: 12 Aug 2025 — Issue date: 08 Oct 2025 Cite: reference for this paper using: BibTeX, LaTeX, Text/Word, RIS, EndNote


THP058Optimization of kicker location for pseudo single bunch operation in SPEAR31071The Pseudo Single Bunch (PSB) operation mode is being developed at Stanford Synchrotron Radiation Lightsource (SSRL) to address growing interests from time-resolved experiments. To accommodate both regular user and timing user experiments simultaneously, a fast electron kicker will be installed in one of the long straight sections at SPEAR3. This kicker will provide a large spatial separation between the main bunch trains and the camshaft bunch. The resulting x-ray spatial separation from undulator beamlines will be highly dependent on the location of the PSB kicker to be installed. We present here considerations of the PSB kicker location with beamline simulations for both low and high repetition rate modes.P. Liu, K. Tian, T. Rabedeau, J. Safranek  SLAC National Accelerator LaboratoryPaper: THP058DOI: reference for this paper: 10.18429/JACoW-NAPAC2025-THP058About:  Received: 05 Aug 2025 — Revised: 13 Aug 2025 — Accepted: 14 Aug 2025 — Issue date: 08 Oct 2025 Cite: reference for this paper using: BibTeX, LaTeX, Text/Word, RIS, EndNote


THP059Orthogonal directions constrained gradient method for beam optics correction1075An Orthogonal Directions Constrained Gradient Method (ODCGM) has been developed and experimentally used for optimization and correction of H$^-$ optical beam parameters for laser assisted charge exchange injection (LACE) experiments. LACE experiment requires precise tune up of H$^-$ beam parameters for high efficiency stripping. High precision tuning of beam parameters cannot be done in one step due to miscellaneous errors of power supplies and other factors. Then, subsequent application of the optic correction method considered here can do fine tune up of the beam. A simple experimental demonstration of ODCGM is presented.T. Gorlov, A. Aleksandrov, N. Evans, S. Cousineau  Oak Ridge National LaboratoryPaper: THP059DOI: reference for this paper: 10.18429/JACoW-NAPAC2025-THP059About:  Received: 06 Aug 2025 — Revised: 13 Aug 2025 — Accepted: 14 Aug 2025 — Issue date: 08 Oct 2025 Cite: reference for this paper using: BibTeX, LaTeX, Text/Word, RIS, EndNote


THP060Performance requirements for the LANSCE Accelerator Modernization Project1078The LANSCE accelerator concurrently accelerates two beam species, H+ and H-, and delivers beam to five distinct user stations, including slow and fast neutron scattering centers, ultra-cold neutron research, proton radiography, and isotope production. The LANSCE Accelerator Modernization Project (LAMP) will replace the initial sections of LANSCE, from sources through the end of the 100-MeV drift-tube linac. The combination of multiple user stations, and the unique operation of LANSCE, present unique challenges and opportunities. In this paper, we present the performance requirements for LAMP, an overview of the project status and timeline, an overview of the conceptual design, and outlook.C. Taylor, J. Lewellen, D. Dimitrov, D. Spernjak, G. Dale, H. Gaus, J. Medina, K. Bishofberger, R. Thornton, S. Mosby, S. Swickley  Los Alamos National LaboratoryPaper: THP060DOI: reference for this paper: 10.18429/JACoW-NAPAC2025-THP060About:  Received: 02 Aug 2025 — Revised: 13 Aug 2025 — Accepted: 14 Aug 2025 — Issue date: 08 Oct 2025 Cite: reference for this paper using: BibTeX, LaTeX, Text/Word, RIS, EndNote


THP061Photon stimulated desorption beamline at NSLS-II1081Understanding synchrotron induced gas desorption plays an important role in predicting vacuum behavior of accelerators. Investigations of new materials and coatings require careful study of their desorption yield for potential use in upgrading NSLS-II as well as other accelerator facilities. A beamline at NSLS-II, dedicated to the study of novel and proposed vacuum materials has been constructed and commissioned to advance further research into desorption behavior. The PSD of stainless steel, OFHC copper and NEG coated copper, some of which for use in the future Electron-Ion Collider at BNL, have been measured and will be presented. These newly established desorption rates will be used as inputs to advanced modeling tools such as MolFlow+ and SynRad+ for accurate predictions of vacuum behavior and design optimization. The existing layout and future plans for the beamline will be presented.R. Todd, C. Hetzel, M. Seegitz, O. Chubar, P. Palecek, S. Hulbert, T. Shaftan  Brookhaven National LaboratoryM. Juni Ferreira  European Spallation SourcePaper: THP061DOI: reference for this paper: 10.18429/JACoW-NAPAC2025-THP061About:  Received: 01 Aug 2025 — Revised: 11 Aug 2025 — Accepted: 11 Aug 2025 — Issue date: 08 Oct 2025 Cite: reference for this paper using: BibTeX, LaTeX, Text/Word, RIS, EndNote


THP062Physics model to study resonant compton scattering1085Over the past several decades, the elastic interaction between photons and electrons known as Compton scattering, has been the foundational mechanism for generating high-energy photon beams, particularly in the gamma-ray regime. Resonant interactions between photons and atomic systems offer significantly enhanced resonant cross-sections, often several orders of magnitude greater than what is achievable through conventional Compton scattering of electron and photon beams. The Gamma Factory initiative at CERN aims to exploit this enhancement by employing ultra-relativistic, partially stripped ion beams to generate high-intensity gamma-ray beams. In this work, we first examine the energy-matching requirements for resonance. We then present a semi-classical model based on a damped-driven oscillator to describe resonant Compton scattering. This model provides physical insight into the resonant cross-section and the limitations imposed by beam-beam interactions. We also propose a framework for simulating the scattering process.W. Delooze, Y. Wu  Duke UniversityPaper: THP062DOI: reference for this paper: 10.18429/JACoW-NAPAC2025-THP062About:  Received: 07 Aug 2025 — Revised: 11 Aug 2025 — Accepted: 12 Aug 2025 — Issue date: 08 Oct 2025 Cite: reference for this paper using: BibTeX, LaTeX, Text/Word, RIS, EndNote


THP064Radioisotope production at SNS (RIPS)1089A unique opportunity exists to investigate alternative radionuclide production technologies utilizing the high-energy proton beams available at the Spallation Neutron Source (SNS) at Oak Ridge National Laboratory (ORNL). The Second Target Station (STS) is being built to address emerging science challenges in energy, security, and transportation. The STS will complement the capabilities of the First Target Station (FTS) and High Flux Isotope Reactor (HFIR) by filling gaps in materials research that require the combined use of intense, long-wavelength (cold) neutrons, and instruments that are optimized for exploration of complex materials. The construction of the STS beamline to the target also presents an opportunity to capitalize on additional applications, such as the production of high-demand radioisotopes for medical applications. Work began in 2024 to investigate the possibility of Radioisotope Production at SNS (RIPS) through four main goals: (1) identification of isotopes of interest through the modeling and simulation of prospective irradiation parameters and target compositions, (2) development of a target design concept that can receive high energy beam pulses from the SNS accelerator, (3) identification of enhanced isotope separation methods for SNS produced radionuclides, and (4) a design concept for an experimental/demonstration facility. An overview of the project and progress towards achieving these goals will be presented.J. Griswold, E. Asano, Y. Lee, S. Kim, S. Cousineau, D. Rotsch, J. Duran, D. Stracener, C. Rasco, F. Pilat  Oak Ridge National LaboratoryPaper: THP064DOI: reference for this paper: 10.18429/JACoW-NAPAC2025-THP064About:  Received: 08 Aug 2025 — Revised: 15 Aug 2025 — Accepted: 15 Aug 2025 — Issue date: 08 Oct 2025 Cite: reference for this paper using: BibTeX, LaTeX, Text/Word, RIS, EndNote


THP065Radioisotope production at the Spallation Neutron Source: Design concept of experimental target station1093Completion of the Proton Power Upgrade Project for the Spallation Neutron Source (SNS) accelerator at Oak Ridge National Laboratory opens an opportunity to utilize reserve beam power of more than 100 kW for applications beyond neutron production. One of these applications is the production of critical radionuclides. To demonstrate the feasibility of using the reserve beam power to produce radioisotope at SNS, a design concept of a small-scale experimental target station in the Linac Dump area has been developed. This experimental facility will provide isotope yield benchmarking data using protons in the GeV range. It will also enable additional research and development in isotope handling and radiochemical separation. The target station consists of a target module enclosed in a vessel and concrete shielding. Particle transport calculations and thermo-mechanical simulations are used to determine beam parameters, decay time, isotope yield, shielding dimensions, and target design parameters. Calculations verified that the irradiated capsule can be handled manually using hands-off tools and transported to a hot cell in a shielded container for post-irradiation characterizations.Y. Lee, I. Popova, J. Griswold, S. Kim, S. Cousineau, W. Willis  Oak Ridge National LaboratoryPaper: THP065DOI: reference for this paper: 10.18429/JACoW-NAPAC2025-THP065About:  Received: 06 Aug 2025 — Revised: 13 Aug 2025 — Accepted: 14 Aug 2025 — Issue date: 08 Oct 2025 Cite: reference for this paper using: BibTeX, LaTeX, Text/Word, RIS, EndNote


THP066Radioisotope production at the Spallation Neutron Source: Design concept of isotope production target1097Upon completion of the Second Target Station (STS) Project in the mid 2030s, the Spallation Neutron Source accelerator at Oak Ridge National Laboratory will deliver a 2.7 MW proton beam to the neutron production targets. In the post-STS phase, the accelerator will have a reserve beam power capacity of at least 100 kW beyond what the two neutron production targets will receive, which could potentially be ramped up to 300 kW. In this paper, a design concept for a radioisotope production target that could utilize 250 kW of the reserve beam power capacity is presented. The target consists of thorium discs encapsulated in 316L austenitic steel shells that are cooled by water. The estimated post-irradiation activity of Ac-225 and Ra-225, critical medical radioisotopes used in targeted alpha therapy cancer treatment, is calculated at the end of bombardment after a 14 day long irradiation time. Thermal and structural analyses are performed on the basis of calculated nuclear heating data. The technical feasibility of a high-power target under a 250-kW beam load with an extremely low duty factor of $3.5\cdot 10^{-6}$ is presented from thermal, structural and fatigue lifetime perspectives.Y. Lee, J. Griswold, S. Kim, S. Cousineau  Oak Ridge National LaboratoryPaper: THP066DOI: reference for this paper: 10.18429/JACoW-NAPAC2025-THP066About:  Received: 06 Aug 2025 — Revised: 13 Aug 2025 — Accepted: 14 Aug 2025 — Issue date: 08 Oct 2025 Cite: reference for this paper using: BibTeX, LaTeX, Text/Word, RIS, EndNote


THP067Recent progress on CsTe photocathode growth at LANLThis poster will discuss the performance of CsTe photocathodes recently grown for the CARIE (Cathodes and Radiofrequency Interactions in Extremes) project at LANL. CARIE requires a low emittance, high quantum efficiency (QE) photocathode, capable of withstanding challenging vacuum conditions and high fields. CsTe is a natural fit. We will describe recent efforts to optimize the co-deposition process after our growth chamber was rebuilt from contamination. We will also show our study of QE from CsTe on different substrates.J. Zhang, A. Alexander, E. Simakov, G. Wang, H. Xu  Los Alamos National LaboratoryCite: reference for this paper using: BibTeX, LaTeX, Text/Word, RIS, EndNote


THP068Research program at the NLCTA Test FacilityThe research program at the NLCTA Test Facility at SLAC National Accelerator Laboratory includes experiments spanning a broad range of applications, from accelerator technology for HEP to applications in medicine, industry, and national security. The test areas utilize the infrastructure of the original Next Linear Collider Test Accelerator (NLCTA) including high power RF sources at X-band (11.424 GHz) and S-band (2.856 GHz) and a radiation shielded vault designed for a 1 GeV electron beam. The X-band Test Accelerator (XTA) delivers electron beam at energies from 30-70 MeV and up to 100 pC. NLCTA is participating in the new BeamNetUS network of test facilities. NLCTA facility capabilities include cryogenic testing down to 4 K with high power RF, electron beam and laser at 800 nm on XTA, and a planned test area for high magnetic fields.G. Le Sage, J. Cruz, J. Merrick, M. Boyce, M. Othman, S. Morton, E. Snively, E. Nanni, C. Hast, C. Muñoz Pequeño, A. Gabriel, A. Dhar, S. Weathersby, W. Tan, D. McCormick  SLAC National Accelerator LaboratoryCite: reference for this paper using: BibTeX, LaTeX, Text/Word, RIS, EndNote


THP070Simulation of the thermoelectric effect in a multi-metallic superconducting cavity1101Superconducting radio-frequency accelerating cavities made with different material layers, such as copper, Nb or Nb₃Sn, are susceptible to thermoelectric effects due to differences in Seebeck coefficients between the metals. A temperature gradient across the surfaces can drive thermoelectric currents, which may impact the cavity performance. A layered Cu/Nb/Nb3Sn single-cell cavity was tested with cryocoolers in 2022. Three heaters were mounted on the cavity surface at different locations and three single-axis cryogenic fluxgate magnetometers were attached close to the cavity equator. A linear increase in the magnetic field was measured while increasing the heaters' power. The cavity setup was analyzed with COMSOL and the results showed a trend similar to that observed in the experiment. This contribution details the approach chosen for the simulation and some of the challenges encountered.N. Raut, N. Stilin, J. Vennekate, S. Wang, G. Ciovati  Thomas Jefferson National Accelerator FacilityPaper: THP070DOI: reference for this paper: 10.18429/JACoW-NAPAC2025-THP070About:  Received: 06 Aug 2025 — Revised: 12 Aug 2025 — Accepted: 13 Aug 2025 — Issue date: 08 Oct 2025 Cite: reference for this paper using: BibTeX, LaTeX, Text/Word, RIS, EndNote


THP071Simulations of positron injector for Ce+BAF1105A baseline concept for a continuous wave (CW) polarized positron injector was developed for the Continuous Electron Beam Accelerator Facility (CEBAF) at Jefferson Lab. This concept is based on the generation of CW longitudinally polarized positrons by a high-current, polarized electron beam (1 mA, 130‑370 MeV, and 90% longitudinal polarization) that passes through a rotating, water-cooled, tungsten target. The simulation results for the Ce+BAF injector at the Low Energy Recirculator Facility (LERF) are presented, including positron beam generation, capture, energy selection, and acceleration to 123 MeV. The positron yield (or positron current) and longitudinal polarization are calculated considering the longitudinal and transverse CEBAF acceptances (&LT1% energy spread, &LT1 mm bunch length and normalized emittance of &LT100 mm mrad). The impact of target thickness, drive electron beam energy, and transverse size on positron yield within the required emittance limit is evaluated.A. Ushakov, D. Turner, J. Benesch, J. Grames, R. Rimmer, S. Ogur, S. Wang, Y. Roblin  Thomas Jefferson National Accelerator FacilityE. Voutier  Université Paris-Saclay, CNRS/IN2P3, IJCLabV. Lizárraga-Rubio  Universidad de GuanajuatoPaper: THP071DOI: reference for this paper: 10.18429/JACoW-NAPAC2025-THP071About:  Received: 08 Aug 2025 — Revised: 13 Aug 2025 — Accepted: 14 Aug 2025 — Issue date: 08 Oct 2025 Cite: reference for this paper using: BibTeX, LaTeX, Text/Word, RIS, EndNote


THP072Single-shot longitudinal phase-space measurement of thermionic-cathode gun beam at the APS linac*1109Advancements in particle accelerator technology hinge on our ability to precisely measure and understand the behavior of high-brightness beams. Following the installation of the new photo-cathode gun (PCG) laser at the front-end of the Advanced Photon Source (APS) linac, commissioning studies are needed to understand and bring the new PCG beam up to operational standard. In the present work, we present initial measurements characterizing the longitudinal phase-space of the thermionic-cathode gun (TCG) electron beam using a transverse deflecting cavity (TCav) located at the end of the APS linac. Downstream of the TCav, which deflects the beam vertically, lies the B1 horizontal bending magnet and three Chromium Oxide screens placed at three different locations where the beam is intercepted and imaged. Measurements of the TCG beam longitudinal phase-space are discussed and compared to previous measurements of the PCG beam longitudinal phase-space.T. Suzuki  Argonne National Laboratory, Michigan State UniversityK. Wootton  Argonne National LaboratoryS. Lidia  Facility for Rare Isotope BeamsPaper: THP072DOI: reference for this paper: 10.18429/JACoW-NAPAC2025-THP072About:  Received: 25 Jul 2025 — Revised: 12 Aug 2025 — Accepted: 13 Aug 2025 — Issue date: 08 Oct 2025 Cite: reference for this paper using: BibTeX, LaTeX, Text/Word, RIS, EndNote


THP073Single spike hard x-ray free-electron laser pulses generated by photocathode laser shapingWe report the generation of single spike hard x-ray pulses at the Linac Coherent Light Source enabled by temporal shaping of the photocathode laser. The pulses were produced with typical pulse energies of 10 uJ and full-width at half-maximum spectral bandwidths averaging 30 eV, corresponding to a 60 attosecond Fourier-limited pulse duration. These pulses open new doors in electronic-damage-free probing of ultrafast phenomena and, eventually, attosecond hard x-ray scattering experiments. We discuss progress towards characterization of the pulses in the time domain using hard x-ray angular streaking and a hard x-ray split and delay device.R. Robles, P. Franz, V. Guo  Stanford UniversityA. Marinelli, A. Halavanau, D. Cesar, J. Cryan, Z. Zhang  SLAC National Accelerator LaboratoryCite: reference for this paper using: BibTeX, LaTeX, Text/Word, RIS, EndNote


THP074SLAC MeV ultrafast electron diffraction facility upgrade plans1113Mega-electronvolt ultrafast electron diffraction (MeV-UED) is a complementary tool to X-ray based instruments that has enabled ground-breaking studies in condensed matter physics and chemical science. The SLAC MeV-UED facility uses a state-of-the-art 1.6-cell RF photoinjector to deliver 3 to 4 MeV electrons for a variety of pump-probe studies in solids, liquids, and gases, with over 6600 delivered hours and >87 publications since 2021. To broaden the scientific opportunities, facility expansion and enhanced instrument performance of MeV UED have been heavily requested. We discuss near and long-term plans for upgrade and expansion of MeV-UED, with anticipated improvements in beam delivery, system performance, data acquisition, and temporal and momentum-space resolution.R. England, A. Reid, C. Duncan, C. Hampton, E. Nanni, F. Ji, M. Mo, M. Lin, M. Othman, P. Kramer, R. Lemons, S. Philip, S. Weathersby, S. Bhattacharyya, T. Wolf, T. Xu, X. Cheng, Y. Liu, t. vecchione  SLAC National Accelerator LaboratoryPaper: THP074DOI: reference for this paper: 10.18429/JACoW-NAPAC2025-THP074About:  Received: 08 Aug 2025 — Revised: 12 Aug 2025 — Accepted: 14 Aug 2025 — Issue date: 08 Oct 2025 Cite: reference for this paper using: BibTeX, LaTeX, Text/Word, RIS, EndNote


THP075Spectrotemporal shaping of attosecond x-ray free-electron laser pulsesX-ray free-electron lasers have opened new frontiers in attosecond science thanks to their high pulse energy compared to traditional table top sources. To date, most attosecond experiments performed at XFELs have been impulsive, with the impinging x-ray pulses being much shorter than the timescales being studied. We present a method for attosecond pulse shaping which enables us to move beyond simple observation of ultrafast dynamics towards coherent control of quantum systems on sub-femtosecond timescales. We present experimental evidence of phase locked attosecond pulse trains from the LCLS-II. We conclude by presenting recent experiments utilizing mutually coherent pulse pairs with controllable temporal and spectral delay to launch controllable coherent electronic wavepackets in molecular systems.R. Robles, P. Franz, V. Guo  Stanford UniversityA. Marinelli, D. Cesar, J. Cryan, J. Duris, K. Larsen, R. Lemons, Z. Zhang  SLAC National Accelerator LaboratoryCite: reference for this paper using: BibTeX, LaTeX, Text/Word, RIS, EndNote


THP076Spin-transparent storage rings for quantum computing1116Spin-transparent storage rings, where any spin direction repeats after one full turn, can be used in conjunction with ion traps as a new quantum computing platform [1]. Advantages of spin-transparent rings for quantum computing include: large numbers of stored qubits; long quantum coherence times of up to several hours; long storage lifetimes; and room temperature operation. These exceptional qualities mean rings could provide a scalable way to implement algorithms with deep complexity requiring many quantum operations while simultaneously providing a large number of qubits. This new platform where the qubit has long quantum coherence time can also be used as a quantum sensor or a part of a quantum memory.R. Suleiman  Thomas Jefferson National Accelerator FacilityV. Morozov  Oak Ridge National LaboratoryM. Grau  Old Dominion UniversityPaper: THP076DOI: reference for this paper: 10.18429/JACoW-NAPAC2025-THP076About:  Received: 07 Aug 2025 — Revised: 10 Aug 2025 — Accepted: 15 Aug 2025 — Issue date: 08 Oct 2025 Cite: reference for this paper using: BibTeX, LaTeX, Text/Word, RIS, EndNote


THP077Status of MicroBeam Linatron (MBL) product line development at Varex Imaging Corporation1120The High Energy Systems (HES) group at Varex Imaging Corporation (Varex) introduced a new concept and design for Accelerator Beam Centerline (ABC) (patent pending), which can be used on compact commercial electron linear accelerators in 1-20 MeV energy range, delivering substantially reduced, less than 0.5 mm focal spot on a beam stopping target in order to improve imaging qualities with the produced Bremsstrahlung. The first 6 MeV prototype tests have been completed successfully, and the work continues to build and test a 3 MeV and 9 MeV ABC prototypes. These linac systems received a brand name MicroBeam Linatron (MBL) series. The design and experimental data obtained up to date are presented.A. Mishin, A. Anderton, S. Proskin  Varex Imaging (United States)R. LaFave  Varex Imaging CorporationPaper: THP077DOI: reference for this paper: 10.18429/JACoW-NAPAC2025-THP077About:  Received: 12 Aug 2025 — Revised: 13 Aug 2025 — Accepted: 14 Aug 2025 — Issue date: 08 Oct 2025 Cite: reference for this paper using: BibTeX, LaTeX, Text/Word, RIS, EndNote


THP078Steady-State Microbunching using Optical Stochastic CoolingOptical Stochastic Cooling (OSC) is a state-of-the-art beam cooling technology first demonstrated in 2021 at the IOTA storage ring at Fermilab's FAST facility. A second phase of the research program is planned to run in 2026 and will incorporate an optical amplifier to enable significantly increased cooling rates and greater operational flexibility. In addition to beam cooling, an OSC system can be configured to enable advanced control over the phase space of the beam. An example operational mode could enable crystallization, where the particles in a bunch are locked into a self-reinforcing, regular microstructure at the OSC fundamental wavelength; we refer to this as Optical Stochastic Crystallization (OSX). OSX represents a new path toward Steady-State Microbunching (SSMB), which may enable light sources combining the high brightness of a free-electron laser with the high repetition rate of a storage ring.  Such a source has applications from the terahertz to the extreme ultraviolet (EUV), including high-power EUV generation for semiconductor lithography. This contribution will discuss the integration of OSX development as part of the OSC program at IOTA. The design of an accelerator lattice to enable the mechanism and associated high fidelity simulations demonstrating the beam dynamics will be shown, and a path to realizing an experimental demonstration will be discussed.J. Jarvis, M. Wallbank  Fermi National Accelerator LaboratoryCite: reference for this paper using: BibTeX, LaTeX, Text/Word, RIS, EndNote


THP079Study of nonlinear beam dynamics of an asymmetric NSLS-II lattice1123NSLS-II is planning an upgrade to an ultra-low emittance storage ring using a novel lattice concept, the complex bend, composed of combined-function magnets. To evaluate technical challenges and study beam dynamics with complex bend, two bending magnets of existing NSLS-II bare lattice are proposed to be replaced with complex bends, introducing lattice asymmetry. To study the impact of asymmetry on NSLS-II bare lattice, an asymmetric lattice is developed by adjusting quadrupole triplets in the Cell 8 long straight section. This paper presents the modified linear optics, optimization of nonlinear dynamics, and a comparison with the nominal bare lattice. The optimized asymmetric bare lattice is also experimentally measured in the machine, and dynamic aperture measurements are reported.M. Song, G. Wang, T. Shaftan  Brookhaven National LaboratoryPaper: THP079DOI: reference for this paper: 10.18429/JACoW-NAPAC2025-THP079About:  Received: 06 Aug 2025 — Revised: 08 Aug 2025 — Accepted: 09 Aug 2025 — Issue date: 08 Oct 2025 Cite: reference for this paper using: BibTeX, LaTeX, Text/Word, RIS, EndNote


THP081The APS linac RF station upgrading status1126The Advanced Photon Source (APS) linac has reliably delivered high-quality electron beams for over 30 years. To support the APS Upgrade and ensure continued operation, a major refurbishment is underway. As part of this project, two of the linac's five operating radio frequency (RF) stations have been upgraded with solid-state modulator-powered klystrons and new digital low-level radio frequency (LLRF) systems. This upgrade has notably improved the linac's performance. This paper summarizes these improvements and outlines our next plans.A. Nassiri, D. Meyer, G. Fystro, N. DiMonte, S. Wang, T. Smith, Y. Yang, Y. Sun  Argonne National LaboratoryPaper: THP081DOI: reference for this paper: 10.18429/JACoW-NAPAC2025-THP081About:  Received: 05 Aug 2025 — Revised: 12 Aug 2025 — Accepted: 12 Aug 2025 — Issue date: 08 Oct 2025 Cite: reference for this paper using: BibTeX, LaTeX, Text/Word, RIS, EndNote


THP082The LANL Proton radiography Facility and Near-Term ImprovementsThe proton radiography facility at LANL (pRad) performs multi-frame, dynamic radiography of dense materials up to 50 g cm$^{-2}$ with interframe timing down to 100 ns. The multiple Coulomb scattering of protons and the use of magnet optics allows for precise areal densities, and in experiments with radial symmetry, volume density reconstructions. The temporal structure of the Los Alamos Neutron Science Center (LANSCE) 800-MeV proton beam allows flexibility for multi-frame imaging over the duration of dynamic processes lasting up to 20 µs or more. The LANL pRad facility routinely provides valuable data characterizing high explosive detonation and materials under strain. However, it is limited by chromatic effects that effectively limited the ultimate thickness and dynamic range of an experiment, making thin materials and subtle changes hard to visualize. Work currently underway aims to eliminate or mitigate these issues. This talk aims to familiarize the community with pRad’s current capabilities and the work going on to improve our radiography and expand the range of possible experiments with futureupgrades to the pRad beamline and LANSCE.J. Schmidt  Los Alamos National LaboratoryCite: reference for this paper using: BibTeX, LaTeX, Text/Word, RIS, EndNote


THP083The Los Alamos Neutron Science Center (LANSCE) Accelerator: Current Condition and Status of Modernization EffortsThe Los Alamos Neutron Science Center (LANSCE) accelerator is MW-class H-/H+ 800 MeV linear accelerator that serves five distinct user facilities that support Los Alamos National Laboratory (LANL) national security missions, commercial applications, and the Department of Energy’s Office of Science medical isotope production program. After more than 50 years of continuous operation, we are embarking on upgrades of major accelerator systems in order to continue LANSCE operations for several more decades. We will present an update on the status of the accelerator today and our modernization efforts.B. Carlsten, E. Brown, G. Dale, J. Lewellen, J. Lyles, J. Bradley, M. Gulley, M. Brown, S. Russell  Los Alamos National LaboratoryCite: reference for this paper using: BibTeX, LaTeX, Text/Word, RIS, EndNote


THP084The potential high orders of vertical electric field systematic effect due to hyperbolic/elliptical deformed electrode plates in the proton-EDM ring1128To achieve high precision in a storage ring experiment, it is essential to eliminate field errors up to a certain order to ensure they do not contribute to systematic effect to the experiment. In this study, we modeled electrode plates of electrostatic deflector with hyperbolic/elliptical shape deformation schemes. We analyzed the resulting beam dynamics and spin effects caused by these higher-order electric field errors and explored the potential systematic effects introduced by such deformed electrostatic deflectors within the proton Electric Dipole Moment (pEDM) Symmetric-Hybrid ring design*.J. Lee  Stony Brook UniversityB. Dhital, H. Huang, W. Morse  Brookhaven National LaboratoryY. Semertzidis  Korea Institute for Advanced StudyPaper: THP084DOI: reference for this paper: 10.18429/JACoW-NAPAC2025-THP084About:  Received: 06 Aug 2025 — Revised: 12 Aug 2025 — Accepted: 12 Aug 2025 — Issue date: 08 Oct 2025 Cite: reference for this paper using: BibTeX, LaTeX, Text/Word, RIS, EndNote


THP085The Reconfiggler: A uniquely versatile wigglerWigglers are periodic arrays of magnets with myriad applications in accelerator physics. Generally though, they are only tunable by adjusting the gap between jaws. Here, we present a wiggler based on diametrically magnetized cylindrical magnets with independently adjustable angle. This allows the realization of arbitrary (bandwidth constrained) magnetic configurations. We illustrate its application to the recently proposed "transverse wiggler" concept for transverse phase space control.N. Majernik  SLAC National Accelerator LaboratoryA. Parrack, G. Andonian, J. Rosenzweig  University of California, Los AngelesE. Wisniewski, J. Power, S. Doran, W. Liu  Argonne National LaboratoryG. Ha  Northern Illinois UniversityCite: reference for this paper using: BibTeX, LaTeX, Text/Word, RIS, EndNote


THP086Time-of-Flight energy measurements with BPMs1132The energy of a bunched non-relativistic ion beam can be deduced from measuring the beam phases in neighboring Beam Position Monitors (BPMs). This report presents estimations on implementation of such a procedure at PIP-II H- linac being constructed at Fermilab. In part, the case when the flight time between BPMs is larger than the period of BPM frequency is considered in detail. When the absolute BPM phase calibration is not available, the BPM phase information can be used to trace deviations of the beam energy from the desired value. Such “energy deviation” parameter is operationally implemented at the transfer line between 400 MeV Linac and the Booster, and its analog is expected to be used in the transfer line from PIP-II as well.A. Shemyakin, J. Kuharik, R. Sharankova  Fermi National Accelerator LaboratoryPaper: THP086DOI: reference for this paper: 10.18429/JACoW-NAPAC2025-THP086About:  Received: 07 Aug 2025 — Revised: 13 Aug 2025 — Accepted: 14 Aug 2025 — Issue date: 08 Oct 2025 Cite: reference for this paper using: BibTeX, LaTeX, Text/Word, RIS, EndNote


THP087Transport Lattice Optimization for an S-Band Compact Electron Linear AcceleratorWe present an optimization of a novel compact accelerator configuration, where each accelerating cell is individually driven by an emerging high-power, solid-state RF amplifier. This architecture, first developed at LANL for space applications, has the potential to produce a high-power electron beam with reduced footprint. Optimizing the size, weight, and cost of construction and operation of such an accelerator, while ensuring redundancy, requires a detailed particle simulation model. In this work, the design of a 2 MeV compact electron linac with 1.5 kW average beam power was optimized using a simulation model of the linac created using the software package General Particle Tracer (GPT). The accelerator consists of a 20 kV DC electron gun, a pre-buncher cavity and five 4-cell modules containing S-band cavities that accelerate the beam to 2 MeV, as well as provide transverse focusing. Additional transverse focusing is provided by solenoids along the beamline to maximize transmission. The cavity phases and the solenoid currents were optimized to maximize transmission through the accelerator. The design of the compact electron linac and its optimization will be presented at the conference.J. Yoskowitz, J. Lewellen, L. Duffy, M. Kaemingk, P. Anisimov  Los Alamos National LaboratoryB. Sims  Los Alamos National Laboratory, Michigan State UniversityCite: reference for this paper using: BibTeX, LaTeX, Text/Word, RIS, EndNote


THP089Traveling-wave chopper structures for LANSCE modification project1136The Los Alamos Neutron Science Center (LANSCE) accelerator complex delivers both protons and negative hydrogen ions with various beam time patterns simultaneously to multiple users. The LANSCE linac front end is still based on Cockcroft-Walton voltage generators. An upgrade of the front end to a modern, RFQ-based version – a part of the LANSCE Modernization Project (LAMP) – is now in the conceptual design stage. The LAMP will need fast beam choppers both in the low-energy transport (LEBT, 100 keV) before RFQ, and in the medium-energy transport (MEBT, 3 MeV) after RFQ. We use CST modeling to develop fast traveling-wave current structures for LAMP MEBT and LEBT beam choppers. A few structure types: plate-coax helix, meander-folded stripline on high-dielectric-constant substrate, and double-helix – are considered and compared. The structures must provide short rise / fall times of the deflecting electric field (1-ns class in MEBT), while still making possible for the chopper pulse generators to deliver the required voltages at high repetition rates.S. Kurennoy  Los Alamos National LaboratoryPaper: THP089DOI: reference for this paper: 10.18429/JACoW-NAPAC2025-THP089About:  Received: 08 Aug 2025 — Revised: 13 Aug 2025 — Accepted: 14 Aug 2025 — Issue date: 08 Oct 2025 Cite: reference for this paper using: BibTeX, LaTeX, Text/Word, RIS, EndNote


THP090Tunable Terawatt Attosecond Soft‑X‑Ray Pulse Pair from a Plasma Wakefield Driven Free Electron LaserAttosecond X-ray pulses are a pioneering tools for real-time observation of ultrafast electronic dynamics in atoms and molecules, opening up revolutionary advances in chemistry, materials science, and condensed-matter physics. Existing attosecond sources are, however, constrained by low photon energy and flux, which limits their experimental applications. we present here start-to-end simulations of soft-X-ray FEL, taking advantage of attosecond electron beam generated from PWFA to provide terawatt-level peak power in pulses of merely tens of attoseconds duration. High-brightness electrons produced in PWFA are longitudinally compressed in a magnetic arc and then injected into an undulator. By tuning the undulator taper, two isolated spikes of radiation—each tens of attosecond duration and terawatt peak power are generated for inherent pump–probe application with tunable delays. Such an ultraintense, ultrashort source offers a direct route to table-top X-ray light sources and facilitates attosecond-resolution experiments with unprecedented intensity and time resolution.X. Zhang, J. Yan, N. Vafaei-Najafabadi, V. Litvinenko  Stony Brook UniversityG. Wang, Y. Jing  Brookhaven National LaboratoryC. Emma  SLAC National Accelerator LaboratoryCite: reference for this paper using: BibTeX, LaTeX, Text/Word, RIS, EndNote


THP091Tuning of a force-neutral adjustable-phase undulator1140We present a hybrid permanent magnet-based adjustable phase undulator, featuring a period length of 17.2 mm, a gap of 8.5 mm, and a total length of 2.4 m. This planar polarized undulator adjusts field intensity through longitudinal jaw movement, with mechanically linked magnet arrays ensuring smooth motion. Building on previous work, this report focuses on newly developed tuning techniques for trajectory and phase error correction. Our engineering experience demonstrates the effectiveness of these methods in optimizing undulator performance.M. Qian, J. Xu, Y. Piao  Argonne National LaboratoryPaper: THP091DOI: reference for this paper: 10.18429/JACoW-NAPAC2025-THP091About:  Received: 08 Aug 2025 — Revised: 17 Aug 2025 — Accepted: 17 Aug 2025 — Issue date: 08 Oct 2025 Cite: reference for this paper using: BibTeX, LaTeX, Text/Word, RIS, EndNote


THP092Ultra-Bright Cavity-Based X-ray Free Electron LasersCavity-based X-ray Free electron lasers (CBXFELs) such as the X-ray regenerative amplifier FEL (XRAFEL) and the XFEL oscillator (XFELO) have been proposed to produce highly coherent and stable hard X-rays. While the XRAFEL produces high-peak power X-rays with the bandwidth limited by the Bragg crystals, XFELO produces much lower peak power with extremely narrow bandwidth. In this report, we discuss methods to increase the CBXFEL peak power and reduce the bandwidth altogether. We show in simulations how these methods can be applied to high-repetition rate FEL facilities to generate ultra-bright X-ray pulses.Z. Huang, A. Halavanau, M. Singleton  SLAC National Accelerator LaboratoryJ. Tang  Stanford UniversityCite: reference for this paper using: BibTeX, LaTeX, Text/Word, RIS, EndNote


THP093Update on septum magnet redesign at LANSCE Proton Storage Ring1143We report the progress of redesigning the septum magnet at the LANSCE Proton Storage Ring (PSR). The septum magnet at the PSR is used for extracting the accumulated 800-MeV proton beams for transport to the target stations. The existing septum magnet uses parallel, planar coils creating a uniform deflecting magnetic field. However, one coil plate co-locates with the septum; this placement results in the coil, witnessing intense radiation dose rates, receiving accumulated damage to the epoxy potting during the PSR operation. The redesigned septum magnet uses a ferritic steel septum, and the coils are positioned farther away from the proton beam pipes. This placement, combined with the adoption of a more radiation-resistant potting epoxy, is expected to reduce the dose rate on the coil pack, correspondingly increasing the operating lifetimes. The magnet pole tips are refined with shim features to provide a wide flat-field region. The mechanical engineering of the yoke components and the supporting structures is underway. Particle tracking simulations of the proton beam deflection in the septum magnet were performed, and the comparison of performance between the existing and the redesigned septum magnets is reported.H. Xu, A. Garcia, C. Taylor, C. Buechler, E. Huang, G. Johnson, J. Lewellen  Los Alamos National LaboratoryPaper: THP093DOI: reference for this paper: 10.18429/JACoW-NAPAC2025-THP093About:  Received: 06 Aug 2025 — Revised: 11 Aug 2025 — Accepted: 12 Aug 2025 — Issue date: 08 Oct 2025 Cite: reference for this paper using: BibTeX, LaTeX, Text/Word, RIS, EndNote


THP094Updates on scientific and R&D highlights at SLAC MeV-UED facility1146Ultrafast electron diffraction using MeV energy beams (MeV-UED) has enabled unprecedented scientific opportunities in the study of ultrafast structural dynamics in a variety of gas, liquid and solid-state systems. The SLAC MeV-UED program began in 2014 and became an LCLS user facility in 2019. This work will review recent R&D efforts for enhancing the resolution, flux and electron detection of the MeV-UED instrument. Additionally, the integration of Al/ML techniques is being explored to optimize facility operations and accelerate scientific discovery. In all, these will open new avenues for explorations in key areas of ultrafast science.F. Ji, R. England, A. Reid, C. Duncan, M. Mo, P. Kramer, R. Lemons, S. Philip, S. Weathersby, T. Xu, X. Shen, Y. Liu  SLAC National Accelerator LaboratoryA. Zimmerman, F. Liu, T. Heinz  Stanford UniversityA. Raja  Lawrence Berkeley National LaboratoryJ. Xie  University of California, BerkeleyY. Zhu  Brookhaven National LaboratoryPaper: THP094DOI: reference for this paper: 10.18429/JACoW-NAPAC2025-THP094About:  Received: 08 Aug 2025 — Revised: 12 Aug 2025 — Accepted: 17 Aug 2025 — Issue date: 08 Oct 2025 Cite: reference for this paper using: BibTeX, LaTeX, Text/Word, RIS, EndNote


THP095User research at BNL’s Accelerator Test Facility1150The Accelerator Test Facility (ATF) at BNL is the DOE Office of Science User Facility for Accelerator Stewardship, featuring a high-brightness, 80-MeV electron LINAC, near-infrared (NIR) lasers at 1.06 and 0.8 µm, and a 5-TW, 2-ps long-wave infrared (LWIR) 9.2-µm laser. ATF is advancing LWIR laser technology toward the multi-terawatt, femtosecond regime—a major milestone in this spectral domain. Its unique suite of synchronized or independently operated capabilities enables breakthroughs across a broad range of studies, from materials science to Homeland Security, and from advanced radiation sources to novel methods of particle acceleration. Research priorities are shaped by community input through ATF User Meetings and Science Planning Workshops. A key focus is leveraging the co-location of the LINAC and “multi-color” lasers to place ATF at the forefront of THz to hard x-ray radiation sources, plasma physics, and advanced accelerator R&D. In this approach, the LWIR laser drives plasma dynamics, while the LINAC and NIR lasers enable ultrafast probing of plasma fields and density, or controlled electron injection into plasma wakes. These efforts support global research into plasma instabilities relevant to astrophysics and inertial confinement fusion, as well as the development of future colliders and compact accelerators with potential industrial applications. Recent ATF user results highlight these advances.I. Pogorelsky, M. Babzien, D. Choge, M. Palmer, M. Fedurin, M. Polyanskiy, W. Li, Y. Sakai  Brookhaven National LaboratoryN. Vafaei-Najafabadi  Stony Brook UniversityS. Biedron  Element AeroPaper: THP095DOI: reference for this paper: 10.18429/JACoW-NAPAC2025-THP095About:  Received: 05 Aug 2025 — Revised: 14 Aug 2025 — Accepted: 15 Aug 2025 — Issue date: 08 Oct 2025 Cite: reference for this paper using: BibTeX, LaTeX, Text/Word, RIS, EndNote


THP096Visualization tools for EGUN simulations1153DC electron guns are essential sources of moderate-energy electron beams for both particle accelerators and klystrons. EGUN is one of the simulation software that is employed to design such DC guns. EGUN produces detailed data of electron rays trajectories for a given gun geometry, cathode temperature, bias-voltage, and beam current - whether space-charge limited or not. We use Mathematica and Python for advanced mathematical processing and visualization of the EGUN data visualization. For example, we generate phase-space plots at various longitudinal cross-sections and show the evolution of phase-space parameters along the beam axis. The visualization we generate is much richer than the simple trajectory plots generated by EPLOT software that accompanies EGUN. In this research work, we show the example of a practical Klystron gun and the results of our post-processing software.K. Casey  SLAC National Accelerator Laboratory, University of Southern California; SLAC National Accelerator Laboratory, University of Southern CaliforniaM. Shumail  SLAC National Accelerator LaboratoryPaper: THP096DOI: reference for this paper: 10.18429/JACoW-NAPAC2025-THP096About:  Received: 08 Aug 2025 — Revised: 13 Aug 2025 — Accepted: 13 Aug 2025 — Issue date: 08 Oct 2025 Cite: reference for this paper using: BibTeX, LaTeX, Text/Word, RIS, EndNote





