








        Accelerator Technology and Sustainability (Invited)
    














        NAPAC2025 - Proceedings Sacramento, CA, USA


Home
        — Session
        — Classification
        — Authors 
Institutes
        — DOI of Institutes
        — Keywords









THYN


                -
            

                Accelerator Technology and Sustainability (Invited)
            

                14 Aug 2025, 11:00 -
                12:30
            


THYN01How nitrogen and oxygen shape SRF cavity performance932Nitrogen and oxygen-based surface treatments have revolutionized the performance of superconducting radiofrequency (SRF) cavities, enabling them to reach higher gradients and lower losses. However, the exact mechanisms by which these treatments improve cavity performance remain largely unknown. This work provides new insights into the role of nitrogen and oxygen in SRF cavity performance by using time-of-flight secondary ion mass spectrometry (TOF-SIMS) to precisely quantify the concentrations and depth profiles of these impurities within niobium cutouts. We correlate these impurity profiles with detailed cavity performance measurements, including surface resistance and quality factor, and compare our findings with predictions from BCS theory. The results demonstrate that while both nitrogen and oxygen enhance performance, ten times more oxygen is required to achieve the same reduction in BCS resistance as interstitial nitrogen. We present a potential model in which the observed variation arises from nitrogen's greater effectiveness in trapping hydrogen, thus reducing the formation of niobium hydrides and enhancing superconducting gap.H. Hu  University of ChicagoD. Bafia  Fermi National Accelerator LaboratoryY. Kim  University of Chicago; Fermi National Accelerator Laboratory, University of Chicago, Fermi National Accelerator LaboratoryPaper: THYN01DOI: reference for this paper: 10.18429/JACoW-NAPAC2025-THYN01About:  Received: 13 Aug 2025 — Revised: 13 Aug 2025 — Accepted: 14 Aug 2025 — Issue date: 08 Oct 2025 Cite: reference for this paper using: BibTeX, LaTeX, Text/Word, RIS, EndNote


THYN02Achieving 10 MV cryomodule with Nb3Sn cavitiesNb$_3$Sn SRF cavities have the potential to reduce operating and capital costs for SRF accelerators. A first-of-its-kind Nb$_3$Sn 2-cavity CEBAF-type cryomodule has been assembled and tested. The cryomodule contains two 5-cell cavities: one coated and qualified by the team at Jefferson Lab and the other by the team at Fermilab. The cryomodule, assembled and tested at Jefferson Lab, achieved 10 MV accelerating voltage. This talk highlights steps during this development, including  cavity preparation and qualification, mitigations to avoid cavity performance degradation during string and cryomodule assembly, and cryomodule testing.G. Eremeev, B. Tennis, S. Posen, S. Cheban  Fermi National Accelerator LaboratoryU. Pudasaini, A. Reilly, G. Ciovati, J. Fischer, K. Macha, M. Weaks, M. McCaughan, M. Drury, R. Rimmer  Thomas Jefferson National Accelerator FacilityCite: reference for this paper using: BibTeX, LaTeX, Text/Word, RIS, EndNote


THYN03Accelerator Technology for the Electron Ion ColliderThe Electron Ion Collider design includes sophisticated accelerator technology to produce high energy, high luminosity collisions with polarized beams. This talk overviews some of the key technologies, including a suite of different SRF cavities for accelerating and crabbing, cryogenics system, as well as high field interaction region magnets. The talk will also describe several examples where engineering decisions related to cost/performance and operational flexibility optimization needed to be made on the path for maturing the EIC design.K. Wilson  Thomas Jefferson National Accelerator FacilityCite: reference for this paper using: BibTeX, LaTeX, Text/Word, RIS, EndNote





