








        Accelerator Technology and Sustainability (Invited)
    














        NAPAC2025 - Proceedings Sacramento, CA, USA


Home
        — Session
        — Classification
        — Authors 
Institutes
        — DOI of Institutes
        — Keywords









WEXN


                -
            

                Accelerator Technology and Sustainability (Invited)
            

                13 Aug 2025, 09:00 -
                09:30
            


WEXN01Accelerator workforce development625Accelerator science has been hugely influential on research, contributing to physics Nobel Prize-winning research every three years. The DOE Office of Science invests in accelerator science to sustain America’s excellence and constructs and operates large-scale scientific user facilities to be vital tools of discovery. Developing the next breakthroughs in accelerator science, and designing, building, and operating user facilities, requires a large, highly skilled workforce of accelerator scientists, engineers, and technical (AS&E) staff. Some portions of the AS&E workforce are best planned with a long-term, national perspective in mind. A roundtable meeting was called with participants comprising 9 DOE National Laboratories and the Office of Science Nuclear Physics User Facility FRIB. An approximate census of the current accelerator workforce at those institutions was assembled along with an approximate workforce projection with a 10-year horizon. Critical and endangered skillsets were identified and best practices for workforce development were shared. In recognition of the wider ecosystem, plans were discussed to expand the roundtable participants to universities and critical members of the accelerator industry in the next year.C. Clarke, J. Schmerge, M. Bai  SLAC National Accelerator LaboratoryA. Valishev, M. Kaducak, S. Posen, S. Gourlay  Fermi National Accelerator LaboratoryA. Stolz, J. Wei  Facility for Rare Isotope BeamsA. Seryi, E. Pozdeyev, V. Ziemann  Thomas Jefferson National Accelerator FacilityB. Carlsten  Los Alamos National LaboratoryC. Geddes, L. Phair  Lawrence Berkeley National LaboratoryE. Arenholz, L. Lari, M. Palmer, M. Minty  Brookhaven National LaboratoryF. Pilat, G. Johns  Oak Ridge National LaboratoryP. Piot, W. Wittmer  Argonne National LaboratoryT. Meyer  Princeton Plasma Physics LaboratoryPaper: WEXN01DOI: reference for this paper: 10.18429/JACoW-NAPAC2025-WEXN01About:  Received: 08 Aug 2025 — Revised: 13 Aug 2025 — Accepted: 15 Aug 2025 — Issue date: 08 Oct 2025 Cite: reference for this paper using: BibTeX, LaTeX, Text/Word, RIS, EndNote





